{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;\f2\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;\f4\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldItalicMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 #### Three approaches to unifying experience\
##### American Psychology: William James and the function of consciousness\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs24 \cf0 During this period of profound growth and advancement of psychology in Germany, American Universities were not institutions of research, but institutions of education. Starting in about 1876, that began to change. `\\index[gamebook]\{Johns Hopkins University\}`\{=latex\}Johns Hopkins University was founded in Baltimore in 1876 with the explicit mission of "The encouragement of research; the encouragement of young men; the advancement of individual scholars, who by their excellence will advance the sciences they pursue, and the society where they dwell.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://211DE8BA-E7EE-456E-83F1-81586A2319B2"}}{\fldrslt "}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li283\fi-283\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Of the 53 men appointed to the faculty of Hopkins by 1884, nearly all had been educated at German Universities, and 13 held what was then a German degree, the \'93PhD.\'94 The few exceptions to this rule were the eminent American pragmatists `\\index[gamebook]\{Dewey, John\}`\{=latex\}John Dewey and `\\index[gamebook]\{Peirce, C.S.\}`\{=latex\}C.S. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://1692EBDA-CC14-43D9-90F2-3669C95B687D"}}{\fldrslt Peirce.}}  \
\
What followed can only be described as an explosion in research universities in America. `\\index[gamebook]\{Clark University\}`\{=latex\}Clark University was founded in 1887 and the `\\index[gamebook]\{University of Chicago\}`\{=latex\}University of Chicago in 1892.  In 1860, no PhDs were awarded in America. By 1890, 164 PhDs had been given. The first of these in \'91Psychology\'92 was given to `\\index[gamebook]\{Hall, G. Stanley\}`\{=latex\}G. Stanley Hall by Harvard in 1878.\
\
I mention all of this because the German understanding of the science of the mind---specifically that of Helmholtz and his Anti-vitalists---became synonymous with the understanding of research in Psychology during this period. In short, if one approached the mind in some fashion other than this experimental tradition, it simply was viewed as not contributing to research, and hence, was not considered suitable for graduate instruction. More often that not, advocates for views not in accordance with physiological-psychology were restricted to departments of philosophy or anthropology. A particularly good example of this kind of reasoning is G. Stanley Hall\'92s 1879 paper \'91Philosophy in the United States,\'92 in which he laments American Philosophy as not connected to scientific progress and little more mental discipline and moral training in the Christian {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://91A45C44-B30D-46CC-A64D-FD67E28E6BC0"}}{\fldrslt tradition.}}\
\
`\\newthought\{In the middle of this storm\}`\{=latex\} sits `\\index[gamebook]\{James, William\}`\{=latex\}William James. James, in many ways, bridges the divide between the older approach to liberal education and the new approach to research as a function of the university. James himself accredits his interest in Psychology to his time spent in Germany, yet his entire career was spent teaching in a Philosophy Department at a traditional college: Harvard. He advocated for experimentalists, but appeared to perform no psychological experiments himself. His students are the major figures in this first generation of research institutions and Psychology departments, including G. Stanley Hall; yet his position was always in the department of Philosophy, something he appeared to have insisted {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://473CEF93-C26F-471A-B867-1677081AC267"}}{\fldrslt upon.}} James had a life-long friendship with the Hopkins pragmatist, C.S. Peirce. Moreover, James was in frequent contact with the early British philosophers of mind including `\\index[gamebook]\{Bain, Alexander\}\\index[gamebook]\{Spencer, Herbert\}\\index[gamebook]\{Sully, John\}`\{=latex\}Alexander Bain, Herbert Spencer and John Sully.  \
\
In 1878 James contracted with the publisher Henry Holt and Company to write a textbook for this nascent field of psychology. The resultant book
\f3\i  *The Principles of Psychology*
\f2\i0  is a classic in the field, usually cited as the first textbook for Psychology.  Indeed, many use its publication date as the birthdate of psychology.  In it, James defines
\f0\b  psychology as \'93the science of mental life, both of its phenomena and of their conditions\'94
\f2\b0  [p. 1][#James:1890wm]) and identified introspection as its chief method.\
\
James held that consciousness (which was the central phenomenon to be studied by psychology) was like stream, encompassing much more than mere \'91associations\'92 of ideas. The associationists who followed Hume isolated experiences from their context, and provided a overly simplistic account. The object of study of psychology---the relations, tendencies and emotions that make up the stream of consciousness---are experienced directly in introspection, and form the basis of genuine scientific inquiry into the mind.\
\
James' fellow pragmatists Peirce, and his student John Dewey, went on to construct a theory of psychology focused on the  
\f3\i functions
\f2\i0  of mental states, what was called ultimately called \'93The Chicago {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://388CB0EA-040E-46F1-924C-6E4B6BD3EEAA"}}{\fldrslt School.\'94}} ([#James:1904dz]) Dewey argued that explanations of human activity that focused merely on the 'stimulus' and 'response' or the British thinker W.K. Clifford\'92s \'91reflex arcs' were inadequate characterizations of conscious states. In order to truly characterize, and then study, conscious states, science must take into account the
\f4\i\b  function
\f2\i0\b0  or
\f3\i  end
\f2\i0  of those states. In his words:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li283\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 >the distinction of sensation and movement as stimulus and response respectively is not a distinction which can be regarded as descriptive of anything which holds of psychical events or existences as such. The only events to which the terms stimulus and response can be descriptively applied are to minor acts serving by their respective positions to the maintenance of some organized co\'f6rdination. The conscious stimulus or sensation, and the conscious response or motion, have a special genesis or motivation, and a special end or function. The reflex arc theory, by neglecting, by abstracting from, this genesis and this function gives us one disjointed part of a process as if it were the whole. [p. 370][#Dewey:1896vt]\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Functional psychology thus emphasizes the role mental entities play in an organisms behavior, not what those ideas represent, or the 'content' of those ideas. ([#Dewey:1916tl])\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb240\sa60\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 \
##### Experimentalism: Ebbinghaus and the unreliability of introspection\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs24 \cf0 `\\index[gamebook]\{Ebbinghaus, Hermann|(\}`\{=latex\}In or about 1878, inspired by `\\index[gamebook]\{Fechner, Gustav\}`\{=latex\}Fechner's stunning results investigating sensation, Hermann Ebbinghaus started experimenting with {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://392E6D66-CFED-4788-837C-E1197A73CC21"}}{\fldrslt memory.}} Ebbinghaus sought, like all of his contemporaries, to understand the association of ideas.  But he was worried, rightfully so, that using existing words or concepts in an experimental design would allow for the individual subject's previous experience with those words or concepts to influence the result of the experience. Thus, to isolate the association of ideas from any prior influence, he created long lists of nonsense syllables (VAM, ZOK, etc.) and set about memorizing them. He then precisely measured the number of repetitions or amount of time it took to repeat list perfectly, something he called
\f3\i  *trials to criterion*.
\f2\i0   As it turns out, the longer the list, the more time, or trials, it takes to memorize it.  But that was not all: he further tested the process of forgetting.\
\
After some arbitrary period, Ebbinghaus would return to the same list and restart the entire process. If he had completely forgotten the during the period without practice, the number of trials it took to memorize the list completely would be the same as the first time.\
\
Ebbinghaus found that
\f3\i  even if
\f2\i0  he could not introspectively recall items on the list after a break, it took fewer repetitions for him to learn the list to the criterion or perfection. A decade before Freud made it fashionable to believe in the unconscious, Ebbinghaus had demonstrated empirically that the mind could retain information that it could not bring to subjective, introspective awareness.\
\
This discovery was a bombshell to the introspective protocols of Wundt and James. Pavlov had shown that 'unconscious' behaviors like salivation could be trained to a stimulus without the intervention of introspection, but Ebbinghaus showed that a paradigmatic psychological phenomenon\'97memory\'97was subject to the same training. While Ebbinghaus' work was originally published in 1885 in German, it was not published in English until 1913---which \'92just happens\'92 to be the same year James Watson declared the beginning of the Behaviorist revolution.`\\index[gamebook]\{Ebbinghaus, Hermann|)\}`\{=latex\}\
\
##### Titchener---The Structure of Consciousness\
\
`\\index[gamebook]\{Titchener, E.B.|(\}`\{=latex\}E.B. Tichener was British psychologist who earned his Doctorate under Wundt\'92s direction in 1892. He emigrated to the US for a position at Cornell University in Ithaca, NY. Titchener defined Psychology as the \'93*science of mental processes.*\'94 ([p. 5][#Titchener:1896tr]) The term \'91mental\'92 should give us a little pause at this point.  \
\
Jump back, for a moment, to `\\index[gamebook]\{Descartes, Ren\'e9\}`\{=latex\}Ren\'e9 Descartes. In `\\fullref\{pre-historyofpsychology:empiricismaboutthemind\}`\{=latex\}, we discussed Descartes\'92 argument for the existence of the mind as separate from the body on the basis of language and language use.  \
\
Titchener\'92s definition of \'91mental\'92 follows in the Cartesian tradition of introspectability: \'93A mental process is any process, falling within the range of our experience, in the origination and continuance of which are ourselves necessarily concerned.\'94 [p. 5][#Titchener:1896tr] Psychology is the science f the \'91mind\'92 insofar as we understand \'91mind\'92 to be the sum total of mental processes experienced by an individual over the course of a lifetime.  \
\
*The* problem of a Psychology is\
\
> (1) to analyze concrete (actual) mental experience into its simplest components, (2) to discover how these elements combine, what are ht flaws which govern their combination and (3) to bring them into connection with their physiological (bodily) conditions. ([p. 12][#Titchener:1896tr])\
\
As science begins with analysis---breaking up phenonema into its component {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://CCF9CE9E-58CB-459B-9E83-7633B67DC8B6"}}{\fldrslt parts}}---the first task is to divide and separate mental processes until we arrive at the base unit of analysis: the mental experience.  Laws for combining and associating these experiences are then introduced, and the connection thereof to the physical body.\
\
For Titchener, the fundamental unit---the \'91atom\'92, as it were---of psychology is sensation.  Sensation comes to experience fully formed, and cannot be further {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://EC0CE96D-9229-486F-8E9A-A9E9A8EFC0CD"}}{\fldrslt divided.}} Sensation is inherently personal, as no one can directly observe another\'92s sense experiences. Investigating sensation therefore requires introspection. But this does not mean it is unscientific. Indeed, introspection can be performed in reliable ways that would allow for replication by others:\
\
> Have yourself placed under such conditions that there is as little likelihood as possible of external interference with the test to be made. Attend to the stimulus, and, when it is removed, recall the sensation by an act of memory. Give a verbal account of the processes constituting your consciousness of the stimulus. ([p. 36][#Titchener:1896tr])\
\
Titchener\'92s influence on the History of Psychology was two-fold:\
1. One of Titchener\'92s students, and devotee, named E.G. Boring published his *History of Experimental Psychology* in 1929. As the first history of psychology, it largely shaped how Psychology understood itself, enshrining Tichener\'92s views on science as analysis and sensation and perception as the starting point in Psychology for generations. \
\
2. Titchener\'92s insistence on Wundt\'92s introspective method as *the* starting point for Psychology sparked the first revolution: behaviorism.`\\index[gamebook]\{Titchener, E.B.|)\}`\{=latex\}\
}