{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f2\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;\f4\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldItalicMT;\f5\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldItalicMT;
\f6\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\li1418\fi-720\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 #### Behaviorists
\f1\b0\fs24 \

\f0\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li283\fi-283\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf0 Behaviorism holds that psychology is properly limited to the observation, prediction and control of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://EE79BC17-94E7-4BE0-A8E0-EDBF70846C14"}}{\fldrslt behavior.}} It  typified by four hypotheses:
\f1\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 \
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\sa120\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 1. *
\f3\i Internal entities are neither the object of scientific study nor explanatorily relevant to {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://6E91316D-A962-4225-B5A7-091B1ADEF3A3"}}{\fldrslt psychology.}}*
\f2\i0  Behaviorism begins with the deceptively simply insight that while psychoanalytic explanations are framed in terms of psychic entities (ego, id, etc.), quantities (psychic energy) and interactions (the mechanisms of repression), what all psychological theories seek to explain is behavior. These psychic entities, and the massive vocabulary that is required to discuss them, are all hypothetical, posited for the sake of explaining why people behave the way they do. Moreover, psychoanalytic hypotheses require a sharp dividing line between human behavior and animal behavior, which is not born out by empirical {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://13F3A6BC-D417-4E21-8C8D-8B7A63F721DE"}}{\fldrslt observation.}}  \
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 To be scientific, then, psychology must limit itself to observable behavior. The discourse of psychology as a scientific discipline is restricted to those terms that denote observable variables: behavior and environmental conditions, not internal mental states. From characterizing the phenomenon to be studied to offering an explanation, the behaviorist is committed to avoiding all terms that denote entities, quantities or interactions that are internal or {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://E53F1ED9-B1DD-4A14-AA64-415FB8C5CDAF"}}{\fldrslt unobservable.}}  \
A corollary of the thesis, which is frequently highlighted as an independent claim, is that
\f3\i  *introspection is not a scientific form of observation*.
\f2\i0  One might argue (as historical figures like William James and William Wundt did\'96see `\\fullref\{americanpsychology:williamjamesandthefunctionofconsciousness\} and \\fullref\{introspection:wundt\}`\{=latex\}) that internal states
\f3\i  *are*
\f2\i0  scientifically observable via introspection.  Behaviorists, however, reject introspection as scientifically {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://4C876B3E-AF62-4688-ABFE-5864FF0A2F17"}}{\fldrslt unreliable.}} Evidence from Wundt and James demonstrates, they argue, that introspective procedures produce different results for different practitioners, and scientific evidence should be replicable regardless of the practitioner.  \
Behaviorists disagree on whether internal mental states are non-existent fictions or merely unavailable to scientific inquiry; but that is not important here. What is important is that these putative internal mental states do not enter into the scientific study of behavior, or the scientific language that describes and explains behavior.
\f1 \

\f2 \
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 2.	*
\f3\i The proper object of study for psychology is the organism and its environment*.
\f2\i0  As a corollary of this insight, Behaviorists see behavior as the activity of an
\f3\i  *organism*
\f2\i0 , not the activity of a
\f3\i  *mind*
\f2\i0 . Psychology, for the behaviorist, is not the study of
\f3\i  *parts*
\f2\i0  of an organism (such as the \'93ego,\'94 \'93id,\'94 and \'93superego\'94) and their relations, but rather the organism
\f3\i  *as a whole*
\f2\i0  and its relationships with its environments.  And similarly, explanations offered by Behaviorists refer to organisms, behaviors and environmental conditions, not methods of repression and techniques of representation. Behaviorism restricts is object of study as well as its explanations to the macroscopic scale: things that can be directly observed by the naked eye. In the classical sense, Behaviorism rejects
\f3\i  *as non-scientific*
\f2\i0  explanations in terms of or investigations into things that are larger (societies, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://10ADD171-F7A6-44A4-BDA3-CC76985256A8"}}{\fldrslt cultures)}} or smaller (brains, neurons).  \
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 This thesis unites behaviorism with classical psychoanalysis in opposition to Jung, because it holds that all present behavior is the result of discrete learning events in the individual's past.   But unlike psychoanalytic explanations that posit unresolved psychic conflict to explain behavior, the behaviorist appeals only to previous learning experiences. To discover the reason for a given behavior then, is to discover the patterns of environmental reinforcement (called 'conditioning') that have caused the organism to learn this behavior. To cure a behavior is to 'extinguish' those conditioned responses in the organism or block those responses by substituting a new and novel response. Behaviorists hypothesize that learning can be physically realized in neurology, and hence, behaviorism is far more simple and plausible a theory than psychoanalysis, which cannot.
\f1 \

\f2 \
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 3.	*
\f3\i The principles of learning are generalizable across {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://655AAF7D-DA86-481A-AD6E-C95FC71A474B"}}{\fldrslt species
\f2\i0 .}}
\f2\i0 * Behaviorists argue that given that animals are incapable of introspection\'97or, if they are, they cannot communicate it\'97psychological theories that make use of introspection are incapable of explaining animal psychology.  Behaviorism, however, is not. Non-human animals are organisms living in environments that behave in certain regular ways. All of that is accessible to behavioristic science. And as it is an uncontroversial observation that at least some human behavior is the same as animal behavior (caring for the young, for example), it follows that behaviorism can explain regularities that introspective psychology cannot.
\f1 \

\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 ##### Learning
\f1\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f4\i\b \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f2\i0\b0 \cf0 A behavioristic explanation of a given behavior takes the form of specifying the mechanism of learning that caused this behavior.  A behavioristic treatment seeks to 'extinguish' that behavior through providing an antithetical mechanism.
\f1 \

\f2 \
Learning mechanisms in behaviorism are built on the principles of reinforcement and extinction. Explanation of reinforcement and extinction are always specified in terms of stimulus and response. According to Watson, by 'stimulus' behaviorists \'93mean any object in the general environment or any change in the physiological condition of the animal, such as the change we get when we keep an animal from sex activity, when we keep it from feeding, when we keep it from building a nest.\'94  By 'response' behaviorists \'93mean that system of organized activity that we see emphasized anywhere in any kind of animal, as building a skyscraper, drawing plans, having babies, writing books, and the like.\'94 (1929)
\f1 \

\f2 \
In recent years, B.F. Skinner has popularize operant conditioning and the idea of 'reinforcing' a behavior. Anything that increases the likelihood of a response given a stimulus is a *
\f3\i reinforcement*
\f2\i0 .  Positive reinforcement takes the form of adding some \'93rewarding\'94 object to the environment when the desired response occurs.  \'93Negative\'94 reinforcement usually means the removal of such objects.  Reinforcing objects need not be physical, tangible objects, but can something as intangible as the attention of a parent. \'93Punishment\'94 is a negative condition applied to the organism following a behavior.
\f1 \

\f2 \
A decrease in the probability of a response given a stimulus over time is called *
\f3\i extinction*
\f2\i0 . In classical conditioning models of learning, the lack of repetitive exposure to reinforcement will result in progressive extinction of the conditioned response.
\f1 \

\f2 \
The mechanisms learning are:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 * **
\f2 Classical conditioning**, which is sometimes called 'past reinforcement,' occurs when an unconditioned stimulus, such as the presentation of food, causes an unconditioned ('natural') response, such as salivation. These 'natural' stimulus-response patterns are called \'93embryologic responses,\'94 and they are raw material of a classical conditioning paradigm. In classical conditioning, the conditioning intervention in the embryological response occurs by pairing a 'conditioned stimulus' (such as the ringing of a bell) with the unconditioned stimulus. After repeated exposures, the original unconditioned response can be removed, and the response (now 'conditioned') will occur when the subject is presented with the conditioned stimulus. These basic pairings between conditioned stimuli and responses can be generalized over time, so that any loud noise, for example, may cause salivation.  \

\f1 \
* **
\f2 Operant conditioning** differs from classical conditioning insofar as the conditioning intervention occurs after the response, rather than concurrent with the unconditioned stimulus. Operant condition introduces the possibility of 
\f3\i promised reinforcement
\f2\i0 , which would occur when the promise of future reinforcement causes behavior.
\f1 \

\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li283\fi-283\partightenfactor0

\f5\i\b \cf0 ###### Behaviorism as a treatment in psychiatry
\f1\i0\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 \
Behavioral treatments in {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://07E24311-E94D-4B81-972F-2D34E61FACD5"}}{\fldrslt psychiatry}}, like behaviorism in psychology, follows from a simple insight: psychiatric treatment aims at the cessation of maladaptive behavior. Changing behaviors is accomplished through conditioning. Therefore, treatment for \'93mental illness\'94 entails conditioning patients out of the behaviors that are deemed maladapted through the standard mechanisms of learning. \
\
Like psychoanalysis, behavioral therapies restrict themselves to neurosis, not psychosis.
\f1 \

\f2 \
There are two major kinds of inhibition therapies found in the literature:
\f1 \

\f2 \
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 * **
\f2 Reciprocal inhibition**, developed by Wolpe, involves diminishing the maladaptive behavior by conditioning a new behavior in response to a given stimulus that is incompatible with the undesired behavior. For reciprocal inhibition to work, the maladaptive behavior
\f3\i  *must be*
\f2\i0  incompatible with the new conditioned behavior. Aversion therapy, which exposes the subject to the object of desire and conditions a new negative response, is a form of reciprocal inhibition.
\f1 \
* **
\f2 Transmarginal inhibition**, also known as
\f3\i  *flooding*
\f2\i0 , involves exposing the patient to strong examples of the stimuli for prolonged periods.
\f1 \

\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Other inhibition therapies, such as 'retroactive inhibition' are usually forms of reciprocal inhibition.
\f1 \

\f2 \
##### Further Reading:
\f1 \

\f2 \

\f6\b ###### Primary Sources:
\f1\b0 \

\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li283\partightenfactor0
\cf0 [#Skinner:2005wr]\
\
[#Watson:1913tq]. Also available at: <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://psychclassics.asu.edu/Watson/views.htm"}}{\fldrslt http://psychclassics.asu.edu/Watson/views.htm}}>
\f1 \

\f2 \
[#Watson:iMwU-3B8]\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f6\b \cf0 ###### Secondary Sources:
\f1\b0 \

\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li283\partightenfactor0
\cf0 [#Hornstein:2002wq]
\f1 \

\f2 \
[#Wolpe:1958vt]\
\
[#Wozniak:1997vj] Also available at <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.brynmawr.edu/psychology/rwozniak/behaviorism.html"}}{\fldrslt http://www.brynmawr.edu/psychology/rwozniak/behaviorism.html}}>}