{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid3\'02\'02.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2160\lin2160 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl2
\f0\fs24 \cf0 #### Possible Modification: 
\f1\b\fs28 Voting\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
I've left the issue of membership in the APA, and the right to vote on many of the main issues, intentionally vague. This is to allow for some flexibility for the instructor. The issue of who can practice mental health treatment is a game issue, realized in competing proposals in 1973.  As a corollary then, the issue of membership in the APA may be brought forward. This can also play out as one of the causes of the APA\'92s \'91fission' that may occur starting in 1975.\
\
**Kameny**`\\index[instructors]\{Kameny, Frank\}`\{=latex\}, **Gittings**`\\index[instructors]\{Gittings, Barbara\}`\{=latex\} and **Gold**`\\index[instructors]\{Gold, Ron\}`\{=latex\} are not members of the APA at the beginning of the game.  If the gamemaster wants everyone to vote, he or she should make clear from the beginning that they are considered to be members of the APA with full rights to vote. \
\
A character does *NOT* need to be a member of the APA to earn credibility.  He or she *MUST* be a member of the APA to 'spend' that credibility in the final vote.  It follows that non-members must entrust their credibility with a member of the APA so that it can be counted. \
}