{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;\f2\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red29\green29\blue29;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c11373\c11373\c11373;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 ##### The Clark Lectures
\f1\b0\fs24 \

\f0\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li283\fi-283\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs20 \cf0 In 1909, `\\index[gamebook]\{Hall, G. Stanley\}`\{=latex\}G. Stanley Hall, first president of the American Psychological Association, invited Freud and Jung to give a series of lectures at `\\index[gamebook]\{Clark Lectures|(\}`\{=latex\}Clark University. The conference itself was a major moment in the intellectual history of America, as such luminaries as William James, Franz Boas, Adolf Meyer and E.B. Tichner were in attendance, as well as the famed Anarchist Emma {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://E6525820-D715-4C4D-A1EE-D1AE1E5D208F"}}{\fldrslt Goldman.}}
\f1\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 \
After the lectures, `\\index[gamebook]\{Jackson Putnam, James\}`\{=latex\}James Jackson Putnam, a neurologist in New York City, invited Freud and Jung to retire to his family's Adirondack 'great camp' for the weekend. ([#Prochnik:FiwLnN1z])  Putnam became an important advocate for psychoanalysis in the United States, establishing its legitimacy as a treatment for hysteria. While there are articles prior to 1909 on psychoanalysis (notably one by Putnam himself in 1906), we don't find significant discussion of  psychoanalysis in the mainstream journals of Psychology until after the Clark {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://9B5D6BBB-F016-40BB-9170-02EC5BDCA237"}}{\fldrslt lectures.}} An effort to convince the American public of the scientific nature of psychoanalysis was mounted by Putnam camp attendees `\\index[gamebook]\{Brill, A.A.\}`\{=latex\}A.A. Brill, founder of the New York Psychoanalytic Society, and `\\index[gamebook]\{Jones, Ernest\}`\{=latex\}Ernest Jones, student of Freud. By 1916, Jones had published 20 articles, notes and reviews in the Journal of Abnormal Psychology offering or advocating for {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://45C34CD2-5195-4583-B836-F34EF9A16E4E"}}{\fldrslt psychoanalysis.}}
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 \
Putnam and Freud went on to become close friends, and Putnam spent much of the rest of his career attempting to professionalize and regularize the practice of psychiatry. He founded the American Psychoanalytic Association (APsaA) in 1911, which is still active today. His posthumously published
\f3\i  *Addresses on Psychoanalysis*
\f2\i0 , which contains a preface by Freud himself, not only seeks to introduce Freudian theory to his scientific community, but also to dispel misunderstanding gained \'93through the gossip of prejudice and misconception\'94 ([p. 3][#Putnam:1921uc]). 
\fs20 `\\index[gamebook]\{Clark Lectures|)\}`\{=latex\}
\f1\fs24 \

\f2 \
Putnam\'92s influence here cannot be understated. Putnam introduced psychoanalytic ideas to the budding field of medical neurology. His position as a medical doctor at Harvard gave psychoanalysis legitimacy as a medical practice in America, and his stature in the neurological community helped to assuage any doubts about the lack of a physical basis for the hypothetical entities posited by Freud's structural hypothesis.
\f1 \

\f2 \
The story is not all smooth sailing. In 1916, the Princeton philosopher and psychologist Warren Fite reviewed of Jung's
\f3\i  *Psychology of the Unconscious*
\f2\i0  for
\f3\i  *The Nation*,
\f2\i0  writing that it \'93\cf2 presents some five hundred-odd pages of incoherence and obscenity in the form of a psycho-analytic interpretation of the experiences of a sentimental young American woman\cf0 .\'94 [#Fite:1916tk] The fact that the United States was at war with Germany didn't help the psychoanalytic {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://B846CADF-E66B-4B0C-82A5-3B5CE7F94AEE"}}{\fldrslt cause.}}\
\
What followed is a history of tension between those in the psychological and psychoanalytic communities. Helped by the military's preference for psychoanalysts in the treatment of 'shell-shock' during WWI and 'combat fatigue' in WWII, psychoanalysis gained credibility in the eyes of the American {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://D1829346-0909-4DF9-AD6B-9B997E5A4E08"}}{\fldrslt public.}}
\f1 \
}