{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f2\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\sa120

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 History of APA\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\sa120

\b0 \cf0 \
Andreas, B. G. (1960).\ul  Experimental Psychology\ulnone . New York, John Wiley & Sons.\
\
Bechtel, W., A. Abrahamsen, et al. (1998). The Life of Cognitive Science.\ul  A Companion to Cognitive Science\ulnone . W. Bechtel and G. Graham. Malden, Mass, Blackwell.\
\
Still, Arthur, \'93Skinner, Burrhus Frederick\'94\
\
Clark, W. R. (1902).\ul  Pascal and the Port Royalists\ulnone . New York,, Scribner.\
\
Chomsky, N. (1965).\ul  Syntactic structures\ulnone . The Hague,, Mouton.\
\
Dewey, J. (1896). "The Reflex Arc Concept in Psychology."\ul  Psychological review
\b \ulnone  3
\b0 : 357-370.\
\
Hull, C. K. (1934). "The Concept of Habit-Family Hierachy and Maze Learning: Part I."\ul  Psychological Review
\b \ulnone  41
\b0 : 33-54.\
\
Hull, C.K. (1940).
\i  Mathematico-deductive theory of rote learning: A study in scientific methodology
\i0 . getcited.org (1940)\
\
James, W. (1904). "The Chicago School."\ul  Psychological Bulletin
\b \ulnone  1
\b0 : 1-5\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120
\cf0 	Jastrow, J. (1932).
\i  The house that Freud built
\i0 , Greenberg.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\sa120
\cf0 MacDougall, W. (1928) \'93Fundamentals of Psychology \'96 Behaviorism Examined\'94 In J.B. Watson & W. MacDougall (1928).
\i  The Battle of Behaviorism
\i0 , pp. 41-85 (available at Psych Classics)\
\
Miller, G. A. (1962).
\i  Psychology, the science of mental life
\i0  ([1st ed.). New York,: Harper & Row.\
\
Miller, G.A. (1979).
\i  A Very Personal History
\i0 . Cambridge, Mass, MIT, Occasional Paper no 1.\
\
Pavlov, I. P. (1927).\ul  Conditioned Reflexes: An Investigation of the Physiological Activity of the Cerebral Cortex\ulnone .Yale\
\
Prochnik, G. (2006).
\i  Putnam Camp: Sigmund Freud, James Jackson Putnam, and the Purpose of American Psychology
\i0 : Other Press.\
\
Putnam, J. J., & Jones, E. (1921).
\i  Addresses on psycho-analysis
\i0 : The International psycho-analytical press.\
\
Roediger, H. L. (2001). Ebbinghaus, Hermann.\ul  The MIT Encyclopedia of the Cognitive Sciences\ulnone . R. A. Wilson and F. C. Keil. Cambridge, MA, The MIT Press.\
\
Skinner, B. F. (1972).\ul  Cumulative record; a selection of papers\ulnone . New York,, Appleton-Century-Crofts.\
\
Tolman, E. C. (1922). "A New Formula for Behaviorism."\ul  Psychological Review
\b \ulnone  29
\b0 : 44-53.\
\
Tolman, E. C. (1948). "Cognitive Maps in Rats and Men."\ul  The Psychological Review
\b \ulnone  55
\b0 (4): 189-208.\
\
Watson, J. B. (1913). "Psychology as the Behaviorist Views It."\ul  Psychological Review
\b \ulnone  20
\b0 : 158-177.\
\
Watson, J. B. (1928a). "Behaviorism -- The Modern Note in Psychology." In J.B. Watson & W. MacDougall (1928).
\i  The Battle of Behaviorism
\i0 , pp. 7-41 (available at Psych Classics)\
\
Watson, J.B. (1928b).
\i  The Ways of Behaviorism
\i0 , Harper & Borthers, New York\
\
Wundt, W. (1876). \'93Central Innervation and Consciousness\'94
\i  Mind
\i0  2(3) p. 161-178\
\
Wundt, W. (1902). The Principles of Physiological Psychology, E.B. Tichner (trans) New York: MacMillian\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb240\sa120

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 #### Further Resources - Gay Rights movement
\f2\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120

\f0 \cf0 The story of Hooker and Fromm is retold in a number of places, including in
\f2 \

\f0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li709\sa120
\cf0  \'93Hooker, Evelyn\'94 in Aldrich, R., & Wotherspoon, G. (2001). Who's who in contemporary gay and lesbian history. Routledge.
\f2 \

\f0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120
\cf0 Kinsey, A. C., Pomeroy, W. B., & Martin, C. E. (1998).
\i  Sexual behavior in the human male
\i0 . Indiana University Press.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\sa120

\f0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb240\sa120

\f1\i\b \cf0 #### References: - Mental illness
\f2\i0\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li283

\f0 \cf0 Arieti, S. (1974).
\i  American handbook of psychiatry
\i0  (2d ed.). New York,: Basic Books.
\f2 \

\f0 \
Bacon, F., L. Jardine, et al. (2000).\ul \ulc0  The new organon\ulnone . Cambridge [U.K.] ; New York, Cambridge University Press.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li283

\f0 \cf0 \
Beard, G. (1867). "Electricity as a Tonic in Anemia, Dyspepsia and General Debility."\ul  The Retrospect of Medicine
\b \ulnone  55
\b0 : 73-75.
\f2 \

\f0 \
Beard, G. (1881).\ul  American nervousness, its causes and consequences.\ulnone   
\f2 \

\f0 \
Ball, L. C. and J. L. Bazar (2010). "'I tormented the doctors to operate again': A look at patient decisions and the history of sexual surgeries."\ul  Time Capsule
\b \ulnone  41
\b0 (11): 26.
\f2 \

\f0 \
Breuer, J., S. Freud, et al. (1957).\ul  Studies on hysteria\ulnone , Basic Books.
\f2 \

\f0 \
Esquirol, E., Hunt, E. K., & New York Academy of Medicine. Library. (1965).
\i  Mental maladies; a treatise on insanity
\i0 . New York,: Hafner Pub. Co.
\f2 \

\f0 \
Fite, W. (1916). "Psycho-analysis and Sex-psychology."\ul  The Nation
\b \ulnone  103
\b0 : 127-129.
\f2 \

\f0 \
Freud, S. and A. A. Brill (1938).\ul  The basic writings of Sigmund Freud\ulnone . New York,, The Modern library.
\f2 \

\f0 \
Gorwitz, K.(1974). \'93Census Enumeration of the Mentally Ill and the Mentally Retarded in the Nineteenth Century.\'94\ul  Health Services Reports\ulnone   
\b 89
\b0 (2): 180-187.
\f2 \

\f0 \
Hobbes, T. and E. M. Curley (1994).\ul  Leviathan : with selected variants from the Latin edition of 1668\ulnone . Indianapolis, Hackett Pub. Co.
\f2 \

\f0 \
Houts, A. (2000) \'93Fifty years of psychiatric nomenclature: reflections on the 1943 War Department Technical Bulletin, Medical 203.\'94
\i  Journal of clinical psychology
\i0  56(7):925-34.
\f2 \

\f0 \
Hornstein, G. A. (2002). The Return of the Repressed: Psychology's Problematic Relations with Psychoanalysis, 1909-1960.\ul  Evolving Perspectives on the History of Psychology\ulnone . W. E. Pickren and D. A. Dewsbury. Washington, DC, The American Psychological Association.
\f2 \

\f0 \
Marx, K.F.H (1846) The Moral Aspects of Medical Life: Consisting of the 'Akesios' of Professor K.F.H. Marx. Translated by James Mackness John Churchill, London
\f2 \

\f0 \
Menninger, R. W. and J. C. Nemiah (2000).\ul  American Psychiatry after World War II (1944-1994)\ulnone , American Psychiatric Pub.
\f2 \

\f0 \
Murphey, G. (1949).
\i  Historical Introduction to Modern Psychology
\i0 , Harcourt, Brace and Company, New York.
\f2 \

\f0 \
Pinel, P. (1806).
\i  A treatise on insanity
\i0 : Printed by W. Todd for Cadell and Davies.
\f2 \

\f0 \
Prochnik, G. (2006)
\i  The Putnam Camp: Sigmund Freud, James Jackson Putnam, and the Purpose of American Psychology
\i0  Other Press.
\f2 \

\f0 \
Stein, D. J. (2008).\ul  Philosophy of Psychopharmacology\ulnone . Cambridge, Cambridge.
\f2 \

\f0 \
Unknown. (1933). A Standard Classified Nomenclature of Disease. The Canadian Medical Association Journal p. 193-194
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120

\f0 \cf0 \
}