{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT;\f2\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;\f4\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;\f5\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;
\f6\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red28\green28\blue28;\red107\green0\blue1;\red214\green0\blue25;
\red51\green51\blue51;\red118\green57\blue12;\red234\green234\blue234;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c10980\c10980\c10980;\csgenericrgb\c41961\c0\c392;\csgenericrgb\c83922\c0\c9804;
\csgenericrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;\csgenericrgb\c46275\c22353\c4706;\csgenericrgb\c91765\c91765\c91765;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 ## Historical Background\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The study of the mind can be traced back to the very foundations of Western civilization in Ancient Greece.  For the purposes of this game, we\'92re going to confine ourselves to the era of \'91scientific\'92 study of the mind, both in a medical and research context.  All historical events up until 1974 that are described in this game book are listed here in a round time line, for ease of reference.\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
### Timeline of events relevant to game play\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
Major 'eras' are separated for ease of reference.\
\
` \\begin\{longtable\}[!t]\{ | P\{2cm\} | P\{11.8cm\} | \}\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \\hline\
\\
\f1\b\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 tahead
\f0\b0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\{Year\} & \\
\f1\b\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 tahead
\f0\b0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\{Event\}  \\\\ \\hline\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1792 & Philippe Pinel appointed physician at the 
\f2\fs24 Bic\'eatre hospital in Paris \\fullref\{foundationinempiricism:phillipepinel\}
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1794 & Pinel appointed chief physician of the Hospice de la Salp\'eatri\'e8re
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\\\ 
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1801&Pinel publishes 
\f3\i\fs28 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\\emph\{A Treatise on Insanity\}, with his 4-fold classification of mental illness (translated in English in 1806) \\fullref\{
\f1\i0\b\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 app: pinel
\f3\i\b0\fs28 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\}
\f0\i0 \cf0  \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1805&Esquirol published \\emph\{
\f4\i Mental Maladies\}
\f2\i0 , with a 5-fold classification of mental illness \\fullref\{mentalalienation-esquirol\}
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1812&George Boole published \\emph\{The Laws of Thought\}
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\fullref\{concurrentdevelopments:logicandcomputing\}\
 \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1825&Popular wave of 'homocidal monomania', inspiring (among others) Dostovesky's \\emph\{Crime and Punishment\}
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\\\ \\hline\
\\
\f5 \cf3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 multicolumn\{2\}\cf4 \{ | p\{13.8cm\} | \}\cf3 \{\\tahead\{Empiricism in psychology\}\} \\\\ \\hline
\f2\fs24 \cf0 \
1847&Helmholtz, Ludwig, Bois-Reyomnd and Br\'fccke vow to develop an account of human and animal behavior that was entirely in physical-chemical terms.
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\fullref\{birthofpsychology:germanphysiologicalpsychologyinthe1880s-1890s.\} \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1850&Fechner first posits that the intensity of a psychological experience had a mathematical relation to the intensity of the physical stimulus (Now known as \'91Fechner\'92s Law\'92)
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\fullref\{sensationandperception:fechner\} \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1878&William James contracts to write \\emph\{
\f4\i The Principles of Psychology\}
\f0\i0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\fullref\{americanpsychology:williamjamesandthefunctionofconsciousness\} \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1879&Wilhelm Wundt\'92s lab at the University of Leipzig opens \\fullref\{introspection:wundt\}
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1880&Josef Breuer takes 'Anna O' as a patient in Vienna
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\fullref\{hysteriaandhypnosis:freudbreueronannao.\} \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1881&George Beard publishes \\emph\{American Nervousness\}, introducing the idea of a 'nervous breakdown'
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\fullref\{americannervousness---georgebeard\} \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1881&Breuer attempts hypnosis on Anna O.
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1882&Charcot founds the first clinic on "Incurable" mental illness (what we now call "neurological conditions") at the Salp\'eatri\'e8re in Paris.
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\fullref\{earlyneurology---charcot\} \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1883&Christine Ladd-Franklin completes and publishes her dissertation titled "On 
\f6\fs28 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
the Algebra of Logic" under C.S. Peirce. Johns Hopkins refuses to grant her the doctorate because of her gender. 
\f0 \cf0  \\\\\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 1885&Hermann Ebbinghaus\'92 memory experiments call into question the reliability of introspection-based research in psychology, and establishes the paradigm for experimental psychology.
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\\fullref\{experimentalism:ebbinghausandtheunreliabilityofintrospection\} \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1885-1887&Charlotte Perkins-Gilman treated for Post-Partum Depression by George Beard's student Silas Wier-Mitchell.
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
1890&A young Sigmund Freud, blocked from a hospital appointment in Germany by anti-semitism, moves to Paris to work under Charcot.
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1891&The 'neuron doctrine' first advanced by Wilhelm Waldeyer in Germany.
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1891&Christine Ladd-Franklin leaves Johns Hopkins, where she was denied a PhD because of her gender, to study in Germany with M\'fcller and Helmholtz.
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1891-1900&Ivan Pavlov conducts research on dog salivation in response to physical stimulus. We now call his method \'91classical conditioning\'92.
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1892&Krafft-Ebing publishes \\emph\{
\f4\i Psychopathia Sexualis\}
\f0\i0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 see \\fullref\{briefhistoryofthestudyofhomosexualityinamerica\}, and Appendix \\fullref\{psychopathiasexualis\}\\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1892&G. Stanley Hall appointed 1
\fs16 \super st
\fs24 \nosupersub  President of the American Psychological Association
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1892&Charlotte Perkins Gilman publishes "The Yellow Wallpaper", based on her experiences with psychological treatment
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1894&Christine Ladd-Franklin, along with 
\fs26 \cf5 Margaret Washburn,
\fs24 \cf0  are the first Women to be elected to the American Psychological Association.
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1895&Freud and Bruer publish their report of Anna O titled "The Psychic Mechanism of Hysterical Phenomena"
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\fullref\{hysteriaandhypnosis:freudbreueronannao.\} \\\\ \\hline\
\\
\f5 \cf3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 multicolumn\{2\}\cf4 \{ | p\{13.8cm\} | \}\cf3 \{\\tahead\{Birth of Psychology as a discipline\}\} \\\\ \\hline
\f2\fs24 \cf0 \
1896&William James\'92 \\emph\{
\f4\i The Principles of Psychology\}
\f2\i0  published. 
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\\fullref\{americanpsychology:williamjamesandthefunctionofconsciousness\}  \\\\ \

\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1905&Mary Whiton Calkins elected first woman President of the American Psychological Association
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1909&G. Stanley Hall invites Freud and Jung to give a series of lectures at Clark University.  In the audience are William James, Franz Boas (anthropology), E.B. Tichner (psychology) and Emma Goldman (the anarchist). After the lectures, Freud and Jung accept an invitation from James Jackson Putnam, a prominent neurologist in New York, to vacation at his home in the Adirondacks.  During this vacation, Freud and Jung have a disagreement, which causes rift between them that never closed.
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\fullref\{theclarklectures\} \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1911&Ramon y Cajal demonstrates neurons in the hippocampus, confirming the 'neuron doctrine'
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1911&Putnam founds the American Psychiatric Association.
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1912&Alan Turing born
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1913&Ebbinhaus\'92 work translated into English
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1913&John B. Watson publishes \'93Psychology as the Behaviorist Views it\'94, launching Behaviorism. \\fullref\{firstrevolution:behaviorism\} 
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1917&At the inaugural meeting of the American Psychiatric Association, the DSM-I is adopted.  There are 21 mental disorders classified. 
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1933&\\emph\{
\f4\i A Standard Classified Nomenclature of Disease\}
\f2\i0  published by the NY Academic of Medicine, along with the Public Health Serve, the Army and Navy Medical Department and the American Hospital Association. 
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1936&Turing posits the idea of a machine that can compute any mathematical function
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1939&B.F Skinner publishes \\emph\{
\f4\i The Behavior of Organisms: An Experimental Analysis\}, 
\f2\i0 introducing the concept of \'91reinforcement\'92 and \'91operant conditioning\'92
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\fullref\{operantconditioningradicalbehaviorism:skinner\} \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
1939-1945& WWII: significant migration of German researchers to the US; most of the top researchers in the field recruited to the war effort. Large numbers of young intellectuals trained in basic psychiatry for the military.
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\\\
\f6\fs26 \cf6 \cb7 \

\f2\fs24 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0  &Individuals discharged from the US Military for homosexuality begin organic communities in the major ports of the West Coast: San Diego, Long Beach (L.A.) and San Fransisco. \\\\\
1943&bulletin "Medical 203", which defined mental illness for the US military was written by Brigadier General William C. Menninger
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\\\ \\hline\
\\
\f5 \cf3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 multicolumn\{2\}\cf4 \{ | p\{13.8cm\} | \}\cf3 \{\\tahead\{Scientific study of sexuality, and birth of computing\}\} \\\\ \\hline
\f2\fs24 \cf0 \
1948&Kinsey publishes 
\f4\i \\emph\{Sexual Behavior in the Human Male\}
\f0\i0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
  \\fullref\{thekinseyreport\} \\\\
\f4\i\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \

\f2\i0 1949&
\f4\i \\emph\{The International Statistical Classification of Diseases.\}
\f2\i0  Was published. It had 27 major categories of mental illness and 60 sub-categories \\fullref\{app: DSMI\}
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1950&Alan Turing publishes \'93Computing Machinery and Intelligence\'94, articulating the thesis that the mind can be modeled on a machine, as well as a test for the intelligence of such a machine.
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1950&The Mattachine Society, in Philadelphia,  and the Daughters of Bilitis, in San Francisco, are founded.
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\fullref\{earlyhomophilemovements\} \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1952&Alan Turing arrested as a homosexual. Is sentenced to chemical castration through hormone therapy.
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1952&The American Psychiatric Association published the DSM-II, which has 28 major categories of mental illness, and 44 sub categories. \\fullref\{app: DSMII\}
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
June 7
\fs16 \super th
\fs24 \nosupersub , 1954&Alan Turing commits suicide. \\fullref\{briefhistoryofthestudyofhomosexualityinamerica\}
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1954&Evelyn Hooker begins her research on the Mental health of male homosexuals in Los Angeles.
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 fullref
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\{connectingthesethreads:evelynhooker\} \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 September 10-12 1956&MIT hosts the second Symposium on Information Theory. In attendance are John von Neumann (the father of computer science), Norbert Weiner (founder of cybernetics), Claude Shannon (creator of Information theory), Warren McCulloch and Walter Pitts (Creators of a mathematical model of a neuron), Margaret Mead (Anthropology), Herbert Simon and Alan Newell (Computer Science), Noam Chomsky (linguistics) and George Miller (psychology). The cognitive revolution has begun. \\fullref\{thesecondrevolution:cognitivescience\} 
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1955&The Wallace Lab began marketing \\emph\{Miltown
\f4\i \}, 
\f2\i0 the first anti-psychotic medicine. 
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1957&Skinner publishes \\emph\{Verbal Behavior\}, Chomsky publishes stunning critique.
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \\fullref\{
\f0\fs28 app: Chomsky
\f2\fs24 \}
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1959&\\emph\{Trofranil\}, the first antidepressant, appears on the market.
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1960&\\emph\{Librium\}, the first anti-anxiety, appears on the market.
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1963&\\emph\{Valium\} is introduced.
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\\\ \\hline\
\
\\
\f5 \cf3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 multicolumn\{2\}\cf4 \{ | P\{13.8cm\} | \}\cf3 \{\\tahead\{First street activism in the gay and lesbian community\}\} \\\\ \\hline
\f2\fs24 \cf0 \
1963&Barbara Gittings becomes editor of the newsletter of the Daughters of Bilitis.
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1968&Members of the Mattachine society disrupt public lecture by Charles Socarides
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\\\
\f6\fs26 \cf6 \cb7 \
1969&Oliver Sacks administers L-DOPA to patients comatose since the 1920s, and is amazed to find them awaken.  His memoir 'Awakenings' is published in 1972, and widely read and discussed in the medical community. 
\f0\fs28 \cf0 \cb1  \\\\ \\hline
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
June 28, 1969-July 3
\fs16 \super rd
\fs24 \nosupersub , 1969&\\fullref\{stonewall:thestreetactivists\}
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1970&Gay rights protesters picket, and overwhelm, the annual meeting of the APA in San Fransisco.
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\\\
\f6\fs26 \cf6 \cb7  
\f0\fs28 \cf0 \cb1 \\hline\
\\
\f5 \cf3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 multicolumn\{2\}\cf4 \{ | P\{13.8cm\} | \}\cf3 \{\\tahead\{Game Begins\}\} \\\\ \\hline
\f2\fs24 \cf0 \
\
September 10
\fs16 \super th
\fs24 \nosupersub , 2009&the United Kingdom issues a formal apology to Alan Turing for his treatment after massive petition drive.
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
Dec 24
\fs16 \super th
\fs24 \nosupersub , 2013&Turing granted Royal Pardon by Queen Elizabeth II.
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\\\ \\hline
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\\caption\{Timeline of critical events\}\
\\label\{table: timeline\}\
\\end\{longtable\}\
`\{=latex\}
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
}