{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab709
\pard\pardeftab709

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f1\b\fs32 \cf0 The Game\
\pard\pardeftab709

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 This game highlights the intellectual conflicts that changed American psychiatry and psychology in the early part of the 1970s. It might seem a little odd, in reacting game, to be exploring relatively recent events. While there will be no executions, ostracisms or civil wars in this game, the intellectual stakes are no less high. What you know of Psychiatry and Psychology today\'97the social significance of the APA's Diagnostic and Statistical Manual (DSM), the use of psychotropic drugs for 'everyday' life (such as Ritalin and Adderall), and the theoretically pluralistic basis of Psychology departments\'97originate in this time period, in this conflict.  \
\
The game, however, does contain a significant misnomer: in reality there are two distinct associations named 'APA.' The American Psychiatric Association, which is composed of Medical Doctors who practice Psychiatry, maintains the DSM. The American Psychological Association, which is composed of academics (PhDs) who study the mind in a variety of ways, does not.  In this game, we have conflated these two distinct associations. If you are interested in studying these events in closer detail, most characters with MDs are members of the American Psychiatric Association, while characters with PhDs are members of the American Psychological Association. For the most part, events with which a character interacts occurred under the umbrella of their respective organizations.\
\
During the course of this game, you will be the APA. You will be responsible for putting on annual conferences, where the nation's psychiatrists and psychologists meet to share their research and conduct association business. In 'real time', a single conference takes 1 week.  Each weekend of real time then, represents an entire year in game play time. According to your specific role, you may be presenting papers, participating in a symposium, serving on one of these committees, or even running for one.\
\
Scheduling each conference is the responsibility of the conference committee.  The schedule for the first annual conference is already set: you can review it on p. 
\b Error! Bookmark not defined.
\b0  . Pay careful attention to the schedule of submission and review detailed by the conference committee.  If your role sheet requires that you present your research at the conference, you must get your proposal to the conference committee on time. There is a detailed description of the form required for proposals provided under '
\b Error! Reference source not found.
\b0 ' on p. 
\b Error! Bookmark not defined.
\b0 .  \
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf0 Introduction to Academic Conferences, 1971\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f0\i0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Your cab pulls up in front of the Shoreham hotel  in Rock Creek Park, a particularly tranquil part of the chaos that is Washington D.C. You nervously check the entrance to the hotel. It's clear. This year, there are no throngs of protesters bent on face-to-face confrontation.\
They must be down at the mall participating in the massive anti-war protest.  The radio reported an estimated crowd of at least 50,000. And that's before the 10,000 National Guardsmen were called into try to open the flow of traffic.\
The story was not the same last year, in San Francisco.   \
When you arrived at the hotel last year, the entrance was completely blocked by an angry crowd of gay rights activists. Individuals in the crowd personally confronting\'97non-violently but aggressively\'97any member of the APA who appeared. The activists called this 'Zapping.' You found it terrifying.\
There are rumors that the FBI was in attendance last year, and it is almost certain they are here now. The conference was almost shut down. The Washington Post even covered the event:\
\pard\pardeftab709
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\li709\sa120

\i \cf0 The Washington Post
\i0  May 14th 1970 -- The gay liberation and their women allies out-shrieked the head shrinkers today and took over an American Psychiatric Association session on sex. Before the morning was over the 500 psychiatrists who gathered to hear scientific studies on sexual problems demonstrated that they were just as prone to anti-social behaviour as anyone else. 'This lack of discipline is disgusting', said Dr Leo Alexander, a psychiatrist at the meeting. Then he diagnosed the problem of one of the lesbian protesters: 'She's a paranoid fool,' the doctor said, 'and a stupid {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://103FD43E-8EF6-4268-AC48-6EE9D5C028F0"}}{\fldrslt bitch.'}}\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120
\cf0 The conference was a circus.  Young men dressed in flamboyant gowns stormed through the hallways. Sessions were disrupted by guerrilla theater. In one, an activist named Frank Kameny grabbed the microphone and shouted \'93Psychiatry is the enemy incarnate. Psychiatry has waged a relentless war of extermination against us. You may take this as a declaration of war against you.\'94\
It all culminated in a session featuring Irving Bieber, author of the 1962 study on homosexuality published in his book
\i  Homosexuality
\i0 .\
According to eye {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://54707C23-2947-4E1B-8D6C-78CCC0A86C98"}}{\fldrslt witnesses,}} a protester interrupted Bieber almost before he started with the claim that \'93I've read your book Dr. Bieber, and if that book talked about black people the way it talks about homosexuals, you'd be drawn and quartered, and you'd deserve it!\'94  \
Bieber tried to respond by claiming \'93I never said homosexuals were sick\'97what I said was that they had displaced sexual adjustment.\'94  \
\'93That's the same thing,
\i  motherfucker
\i0 !\'94 yelled another.\
It was a watershed moment.\
Earlier this year, a meeting of the New York branch of the APA, a paper by Charles Socarides was interrupted by a handful of gay activists.\
The long-rumored shadow organization of homosexual psychiatrists called the 'Gay-PA' is\'a0no longer in doubt. The highlight of this year's program promises to be a symposium titled \'93Psychiatry: Friend or Foe to Homosexuals: A Dialogue.\'94 The panel includes Dr. Evelyn Hooker, one of the participants in last year's show down and the mysterious 'Dr. H. Anonymous,' who claims to be both a licensed psychiatrist and homosexual.\
Everyone knows that a mentally ill person cannot practice psychiatry. And homosexuality is a mental illness. This Dr. H. Anonymous, if he or she is telling the truth, is risking his or her license. But yet there must be more. We all know, ever since Kinsey's famous study, that about 10% of the population identifies as primarily homosexual, while a significantly larger percentage have engaged in homosexual activity.  And ever since Hooker's paper in 1956, we know that most of this population are psychologically normal. Given the numbers attending this meeting, Dr. H. Anonymous surely can't be alone.\
On the other hand, Socarides and Bieber have called Hooker and Kinsey's data into question. If they are correct, and only a small percentage of the population is homosexual, on what basis could one call it a 'normal' behavior?  Are homosexuals, as Bieber contends, individuals whose \'93heterosexual function is crippled, like the legs of a polio victim\'94? What does it mean to be 'ill' anyway?\
\pard\pardeftab709
\cf0 \
\
In October of 1969, Time magazine had a cover story on the movement amongst homosexuals for greater social recognition -who they called '{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://0AAFE17A-93FF-486A-93DF-1E2530B3EF6A"}}{\fldrslt inverts.'}} In the second paragraph, it referred to \'93gay\'94 bars (with the quotations), but then proceeded to use the word \'93gay\'94 without quotes. It even used the term 'gay marriage.' The article, however, made the following claim:\
\pard\pardeftab709\li709\sa120
\cf0 Most experts agree that a child will not become a homosexual unless he undergoes many emotionally disturbing experiences during the course of several years. A boy who likes dolls or engages in occasional homosexual experiments is not necessarily "queer": such activities are often a normal part of growing up. On the other hand, a child who becomes preoccupied with such interests or is constantly ill at ease with the opposite sex obviously needs some form of psychiatric counseling. While only about one-third of confirmed adult inverts can be helped to change, therapists agree that a much larger number of "prehomosexual" children can be treated successfully\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\fi-283

\fs20 \cf0 Who are these 'experts' who agree? Is this another Goldwater {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://C8A94FDB-3AA6-4F71-98A1-31C364BC92B2"}}{\fldrslt affair?}}\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\fs24 \cf0 These thoughts raise a larger specter in your mind: are psychiatry and psychology scientific?\
Starting a decade ago, Thomas Szasz, Professor of Psychiatry at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/State_University_of_New_York"}}{\fldrslt State University of New York}} Health Science Center in Syracuse, New York has been arguing, quite publicly, that 'mental illness' is a myth!  His ideas challenge the very foundation of your field.  He's listed on the program, and you're quite excited to get a chance to discuss his polemic claims in some detail.\
At the same time, the President of the APA this year is something of a revolutionary himself. George Miller has been arguing for the existence of something called 'Cognitive Psychology', which directly challenges the 50-year tradition of limiting psychological research to the observation, prediction and control of human behavior. For half a century, psychologists have been convinced cannot scientifically investigate unobservable entities like 'minds', but rather must study the behavior of an organism in its environment. Now even that is being challenged!\
Are psychology and psychiatry scientific?  Is there such a thing as a 'mental illness'?  Can (or should) science be used to make the world  a better place?  \
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf0 Basic Principles\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f0\i0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Academic associations like the APA not only provide their members with a forum through which they can socialize, share ideas and test or their most recent work; they also represent their discipline to the public. An association's president is often called upon to act as a spokesperson during times of controversy. The associations often define\'97sometimes very carefully\'97the qualifications someone must have to become a member.\
During 1970's, the APA is being called upon to represent their membership in both of these ways.  It is important, therefore, to ensure that actions of the APA\'97whether it be the election of a new president or the publication of a statement\'97represent the will of the membership.  The association exists for the membership, not the other way around.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f1\i\b \cf0 Reputation & Replication\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f0\i0\b0 \cf0 In academic culture, reputation is capital. But unlike other reputation-based cultures, your reputation depends entirely on the quality of data you produce, your creativity and insight in designing research, and your ability to explain the ideas in clear, simple terms.  \
Disagreements are almost always professional: you can disagree vociferously with an opponent, yet respect his or her abilities as a scientist. On the flipside, those who cross the line between professional and personal disagreements run the risk of ruining both their professional and personal reputations.\
At some point in your life\'97probably 7\super th\nosupersub  grade\'97you were told that 'The Scientific Method' consists of creating hypotheses, designing experiments to test those hypotheses and then formulating a new hypothesis that can be tested.  But most importantly, you were probably told that scientific inquiry is distinguished from non-scientific inquiry insofar as scientific inquiry can be replicated by a stranger.  \
That may be true, but notice that these claims are almost always made with the modal verb 'can.'  The sad truth is that few, if any, attempts at replicating scientific studies ever occur. The academy is not set up to encourage studies that reproduce known results. At educational institutions, tenure requirements force scientists to concentrate on producing novel results. Industries employ scientists to create new drugs, new techniques and new treatments, not to check the results of old ones. And practitioners are usually so swamped with the demands of their clientele that they may not be able to engage in research at all, let alone focus on replicating someone else's research.\
All of that means that the academic culture relies heavily on reputation. It is generally assumed that academics are honest and that their results
\i  could be
\i0  replicated, but will not be. Conferences, such as the APA, rely on a system of peer review to ensure that the papers presented represent the best research available.  But peer reviewers are often selected in virtue of their reputation for rigorous research and high standards. Members are elected to positions of leadership because of their reputation as psychologists or psychiatrists, not because of their knowledge of the rules of order for a public meeting. As you propose new research and present your findings at the conferences, remember that what counts is not entertainment value or charming banter, but quality of insight and rigor in data collection.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f1\i\b \cf0 The Responsibilities of the President\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f0\i0\b0 \cf0 While the presidency of the APA is largely an honorific position, it does come with some serious responsibilities.  It is awarded by election of the membership, according to standards known only to them. Traditionally, it has been given to significant figures in the field at the end of their careers as a kind of 'lifetime achievement' award (for example, Koffka in 1958) and advocates for new and promising avenues of research early in their careers. The first president in this game, George Miller, best exemplifies of the latter.\
The President's main responsibilities include presiding over the meetings of the Board of Directors, and opening each conference with a plenary address. These addresses provide the president a huge forum to reflect on recent trends in the discipline and potential future directions.\
All presidential addresses are published in the
\i  American Psychologist
\i0 , which is available at Jstor.org. Potential presidents should consult the journal for examples.\
}