{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red191\green191\blue191;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid3\'02\'02.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2160\lin2160 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid402\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid403\'02\'02.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2160\lin2160 }{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc1\levelnfcn1\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{upper-roman\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid501\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid6}
{\list\listtemplateid7\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid601\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid7}
{\list\listtemplateid8\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid701\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid8}
{\list\listtemplateid9\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid801\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid9}
{\list\listtemplateid10\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid901\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid10}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid7\listoverridecount0\ls7}{\listoverride\listid8\listoverridecount0\ls8}{\listoverride\listid9\listoverridecount0\ls9}{\listoverride\listid10\listoverridecount0\ls10}}
\deftab709
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf0 Game Play\
\pard\pardeftab709

\f1\i0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
Each week (two or three sessions, depending on your schedule) of game play reenacts one annual conference of the APA in the early 1970s.  Thus, the five weeks of game play cover the years 1971-1975. These conferences are huge events. There are presentations on current research, symposia on issues facing the discipline, administrative meetings for various committees, public discussions and votes on proclamations, and publishers promoting their products.\
\
At the beginning of each conference, each member of the APA is given one 'influence point.'  At the end of that conference, they must give it to the speaker who presented the best paper.  No player may keep these points for himself or herself. Influence points, once awarded, can be stockpiled by faction or bartered with other players. In the final vote (see 'Victory Objectives' below), the influence points can be turned into votes\'97although the specifics are left to the game master to decide.  \
\
The first session of each conference opens with a presidential address. As mentioned in the previous section, the position of President is both an honorific and administrative position. The President is often elected based on his or her reputation as a researcher, but he or she also must have keen leadership skills and knowledge of the policies and procedures of the organization's committee structure. Since these two areas of expertise do not always appear in the same person, an individual is not elected directly to the presidency by the membership. Rather, the membership holds an annual election for the
\i  vice-president
\i0 , who is then promoted to president after a year of sitting on the Board of Directors and observing the inner workings of the political system.\
 \
The Board of Directors is composed of the APA President, the Vice president, the former president and two members elected at large each of whom serving three year terms. For classes smaller than 16, the Board of Directors will be limited to the current President, the Vice President and the Former President. The executive secretary, who serves without vote, is responsible for maintaining the minutes of the Board of Directors and taking whatever actions the committee approves during its meetings.\
\
At each year's conference, the following events occur:\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab709\li720\fi-360
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 (1)	Presidential Address\
(2)	Board of Directors circulates proposals to be considered by the membership.\
(3)	Symposia on topics proposed by membership, as scheduled by the program committee\
(4)	Open sessions for presenting current research (papers or plenary addresses), as scheduled by the program committee.\
(5)	Board of Directors meets in open session.\
\pard\tx1080\pardeftab709\li1080\fi-360
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 1.	All committees and task forces report\
2.	Old Business (tabled from previous meeting)\
3.	New Business\
\pard\tx1440\pardeftab709\li1440\fi-360
\ls1\ilvl2\cf0 1.	Discussion of any proposals circulated in step (2)\
2.	Create and administer ballots for proposals.\
\pard\tx1080\pardeftab709\li1080\fi-360
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 4.	Election for vice president, who assumes that position at the close of that conference\
5.	Election for member-at-large on the executive committee (if necessary)\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab709\li720\fi-360
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 (6)	Executive committee meet in closed session, if necessary.\
\pard\pardeftab709
\cf0 \
Game play may take many forms in the classroom. You may be questioning  the President about his or her vision for future directions in psychological or psychiatric research, engaging with or participating in a symposium with two or three of your colleagues on a contentious issue of the day, participating in research, evaluating research results, discussing proposals in committee, or even arguing about reports from task forces.  The schedule of events will be left to the Program Committee, and it is very important that they distribute the schedule early and widely. See '
\b\fs21 Program Committee
\b0\fs24 ' on page 8 for more on the potential forms of conference activities.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Victory Objectives\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 The game normally 'ends' with a decisive vote on the definition of 'Mental Illness,' probably in 1975.  There are three basic definitions that ought to be advanced:\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1950\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7410\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Advocates\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Definition\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1950\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7410\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 APA Task Force\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\li80\ri5
\cf0 A Medical disorder is a relatively distinct condition resulting from an organismic dysfunction which in its fully developed or extreme form is directly and intrinsically associated with distress, disability, or certain other types of disadvantage.  The disadvantage may be of a physical, perceptual, sexual, or interpersonal nature. Implicitly there is a call for action on the part of the person who has the condition, the medical or its allied professions, and society.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\li65\ri5
\cf0 A mental disorder is a medical disorder whose manifestations are primarily signs or symptoms of a psychological (behavioral) nature, or if physical, can be understood only using psychological concepts.\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1950\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7410\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Behaviorists\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 A person can be called 'mentally ill' when he or she exhibits emotional or behavioral functioning which is so impaired as to interfere substantially with his or her capacity to function in society.\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1950\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7410\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Psychoanalytic\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 A person is mentally ill when he or she suffers from internal conflicts that may be subconscious or unconscious, manifesting behavior that is unwanted or disturbing to the individual or the society.\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1950\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7410\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Szasz\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 There is no 'thing' called 'mental illness,' only  sets of behaviors that may be destructive to an individual and his or her society.\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120
\cf0  \
Factional affiliation and objectives vary from individual to individual.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\i\b \cf0 Influence Points and Voting\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\i0\b0 \cf0 At the end of each 'conference', each member of the APA must give his or her 'influence point' to the speaker he or she believes presented the best paper. When it comes time for the final Victory Objective vote\'97on the final definition of mental illness\'97those influence points can be turned into votes.  \
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Special Rules\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 If possible, each player must serve on at least one committee at some point during the game.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\i\b \cf0 Writing Tasks	\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\i0\b0 \cf0 Every player will write and present at least once during the course of the game. Your role sheet should specify the specific tasks you need to complete.\
A special note for data-driven writing tasks: don't say 'studies have shown that' or (in the 1\super st\nosupersub  person) 'I have shown that...',
\i  show it
\i0 . That will probably mean that you will have to go to the library, find the original research reports of your character, and familiarize yourself with the basic research design, as well as the relationship between the evidence presented and the thesis that evidence is reported to support. If that sounds like a great deal of effort, it should. Above all, remember that you're not writing a report on this person or position, you are
\i  playing
\i0  the person and
\i  defending
\i0  the position.  So don't write
\i  about
\i0   what you (as the character) believe, write
\i  as if you believe it
\i0 .\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\b \cf0 Proposals\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\b0 \cf0 Proposals should be formal. They should be distributed to the membership at least 24 hours before a vote is called. It is usually sufficient to distribute proposals during the first session of a conference year, and hold a vote during the second (or third). Ample time for discussion should be allotted for each proposal.\
Formal proposals begin by laying out the reasons for the proposal with a series of 'WHEREAS...' clauses.  It should then state the resolution. For example, in 1969, the APA resolved:\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283

\b \cf0 WHEREAS
\b0  in many state legislature, bills have recently been introduced for the purpose of repealing or drastically modifying the existing criminal codes with respect to the termination of unwanted pregnancies;\
and
\b  WHEREAS
\b0  termination of unwanted pregnancies is clearly a mental health and child welfare issue, and a legitimate concern of APA;\

\b BE IT RESOLVED
\b0  that termination of pregnancy be considered a civil right of the pregnant woman, to be handled as other medical and surgical procedures in consultation with her physician, and to be considered legal if performed by a licensed physician in a licensed medical facility.\
\pard\pardeftab709
\cf0 You should follow this format when drafting your proposals. Proposals in the incorrect format cannot be distributed.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\b \cf0 Papers and Symposia\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\b0 \cf0 Academic conferences are opportunities to disseminate information you have gathered for your views. The method of presenting those ideas or that data, however, can vary a great deal.  The APA currently supports two kinds of presentations: Individual Reports and Symposia. The Program Committee (see below) is encouraged to experiment with new kinds of presentations, including posters, round tables, workshops, and even exhibits, if they choose. Individual Reports are talks given by a single researcher or group of researchers. Symposia are 'panel' presentations, where a group of presentations are offered on a theme or a specific problem.\
The Program Committee reviews all proposals for both individual reports and symposia.  The guidelines for proposing a report are included in the official 'Call for Papers and Symposia', which follows on page 12.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\b \cf0 Research Grants\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\b0 \cf0 Research grants are 1-2 page proposals specifying a research project you'd like to carry out.  These are submitted to the Research committee (see p. 7) and follow the form specified in the Call for Research Grants', which follows on page 17. If you win a research grant, you will be expected to present your findings at the next annual conference.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\b \cf0 Reading aloud\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\b0 \cf0 Presentations at academic conferences are evaluated by peers primarily on the basis of the content presented, not the style of presentation. While it is important to practice good public speaking skills-making eye contact with the audience, modulating one's voice, etc.\'97getting the data right is more important than being entertaining. For that reason, this game will allow 'reading' of some experimental reports.  Experimental reports highlight the data presented, and carefully articulate the structure of the experiment performed. It is also advisable to bring handouts for the membership when presenting data.\
Presidential addresses, however, should be carefully crafted general lectures. These should appeal to the membership of the APA, which includes many individuals from a variety of backgrounds. They should also be understandable by the general public, as the President is often seen as a spokesperson and advocate for the discipline.\
Symposia and presentations to the committees, however, must be delivered without a transcript. Cue cards or notes are allowed, but in these cases, the speaker must strive to make a personal connection with the audience, and hence, must not simply read a prepared speech.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\i\b \cf0 Role of the gamemaster\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\i0\b0 \cf0 The gamemaster's central responsibility will be to ensure that the conferences run smoothly.  The gamemaster must therefore maintain a robust relationship with the program committee.  In a small class, the gamemaster may prefer to the responsibilities of the program committee for himself or herself.\
\pard\tx1003\pardeftab709\li1003\fi-360
\ls2\ilvl0
\f2 \cf0 \'95	
\f1 Act as secretary to the Board of Directors if there is no preceptor available.\
\ls2\ilvl0
\f2 \'95	
\f1 Remind / cajole the program committee to prepare the schedule at least 48 hours in advance of each class.\
\ls2\ilvl0
\f2 \'95	
\f1 Maintain the election cycle (see the table in the instructor's manual)\
\ls2\ilvl0
\f2 \'95	
\f1 Distribute research reports were appropriate.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Outline of Game Sessions\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9367\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth744\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6776\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc

\f1\fs24 \cf0 Year\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 Class\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 Activities\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9367\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth744\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6776\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709

\b0 \cf0 1971\
Washington DC\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 A\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Presidential Address: George Miller\
Symposium: \'93Psychiatry: Friend or Foe to Homosexuals: A Dialogue,\'94 (Dr H. Anonymous, E. Hooker)\
T. Szasz \'93The Myth of Mental Illness\'94\
Presentation of 'mental rotation' task: gamemaster\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9367\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth744\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6776\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 B\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Marmor \'93Limitations of Free Association\'94\
Proposal from J Marmor\
Proposal from C. Socarides.\
Petition from G. Albee.\
Research report from G. Miller on 'mental rotation' task\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9367\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth744\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6776\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 1972\
Dallas\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 A\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Presidential Address: Albert Bandura\
Symposium on Medical Model (G. Albee, T. Szasz)\
Report from taskforces\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9367\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth744\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6776\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 B\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 R. Spitzer 'The Fiegner Criteria'\
P. Gebhard on the Kinsey reports\
H. Harlow 'Lust, latency and love'\
Research Report: ______________\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9367\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth744\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6776\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 1973\
Honolulu\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 A\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Presidential Address: _____________\
Paper(s) __________\
Reports from taskforces\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9367\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth744\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6776\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 B\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Symposium: ______________\
Proposal to create \'93Spitzer Taskforce\'94\
[other proposals]\
Research Report: ______________\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9367\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth744\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6776\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 1974\
Philadelphia\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 A\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Presidential Address: _____________\
Symposium: _______________\
Paper(s) __________\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9367\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth744\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6776\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 B\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Open hearings on proposed definition of 'mental illness'\
[other proposals]\
Research Report: ______________\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9367\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth744\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6776\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 1975\
Chicago\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 A\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Presidential Address: _____________\
Open vote of the membership on definition of mental illness.\
Paper(s) __________\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9367\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth744\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6776\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 B\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Symposium: _______________\
[other proposals]\
Research Report: ______________\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab709\sb120\sa120

\i \cf0 Table 1: Outline of game sessions\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab709\li720\fi-360
\ls3\ilvl0
\f2\i0 \cf0 \'95	
\f1 Only for a large class (> 16)\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Committee structure\
\pard\pardeftab709

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 The APA is overseen by a Board of Directors, which is responsible for maintaining the organization, and approving all official public proclamations and publications of the organization.  The president, who opens the conference with his or her presidential address, also serves as chair of the Board of Directors during that conference. The secretary of the Board of Directors is responsible for maintaining the minutes for that meeting and implementing whatever policy decisions are required.\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\b \cf0 Responsibilities of the Board of Directors:\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab709\li720\fi-360
\ls4\ilvl0
\f2\b0 \cf0 \'95	
\f1 Issue public proclamations.\
\ls4\ilvl0
\f2 \'95	
\f1 Maintain official publications, such as the DSM\
\ls4\ilvl0
\f2 \'95	
\f1 Create ad-hoc committees and task forces, as necessary.\
\ls4\ilvl0
\f2 \'95	
\f1 Oversee and receive reports from the standing committees.\
\pard\pardeftab709
\cf0 \
\
 The membership of the Board of Directors is:\
\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth4680\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth4680\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 President\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Chair of the Board of Directors, serving a 1-year term\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth4680\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth4680\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Vice-president \'96 elected annually\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Serves a 1-year term as Vice-president, automatically promoted to President for the next year at the close of that year's annual conference\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth4680\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth4680\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Former President\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Serves a 1-year term
\i  after
\i0  their service as the chair of the Board of Directors.\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth4680\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth4680\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Executive secretary (preceptor), without vote\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth4680\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth4680\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Committee member elected at large*\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Serving 3-year term.\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth4680\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth4680\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Committee member elected at large*\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Serving 3-year term.\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab709\sb120\sa120

\i \cf0 Table 2: Board of Directors Membership	*only used for large classes (>16)\
\pard\pardeftab709

\i0 \cf0 \
The membership of the Board of Directors for the course of gameplay is thus: (see Table 1: Outline of game sessions for when these elections take place).\
	\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth8873\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1424\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx1440
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1424\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1425\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1425\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1424\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx7200
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1751\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc

\b \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 Former President\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 President\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 President-Elect\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 Member at large 1*\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 Member at large 2*\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth8873\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1424\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx1440
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1424\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1425\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1425\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1424\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx7200
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1751\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709

\b0 \cf0 1971\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Harlow\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Miller\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Bandura\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Milgram\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Albee\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth8873\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1424\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx1440
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1424\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1425\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1425\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1424\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx7200
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1751\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 1972\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Miller\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Bandura\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 \
\
Elected 1971\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Elected 1971\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 \
\
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth8873\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1424\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx1440
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1424\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1425\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1425\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1424\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx7200
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1751\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 1973\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 \
\
Bandura\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 1971\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 \
\
Elected 1972\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 \
\
\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Elected 1972\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth8873\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1424\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx1440
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1424\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1425\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1425\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1424\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx7200
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1751\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 1974\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 \
\
1971\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 1972\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 \
\
Elected 1973\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 \
\
\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth8873\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1424\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx1440
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1424\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1425\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1425\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1424\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx7200
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1751\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 1975\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 1972\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 1973\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Elected 1974\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Elected 1974\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab709\sb120\sa120

\i \cf0 Table 3: Terms for Board of Directors members     *only used for classes >16\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\i0 \cf0 The Board of Directors is one of a handful of standing committees of the APA. Standing committees are permanent institutions, whose membership is elected by the membership at large. Ad hoc (literally 'after the fact') committees or 'task forces' are created by simple majority vote of the Board of Directors and are tasked with generating a report on a specific problem or area of research. Usually, these are formed when the Board of Directors believes it has inadequate information on a specific subject. For the purposes of this game, ad hoc committees will conduct literature reviews on behalf of the Board of Directors and report to the membership. Ad hoc committees disband after the report is accepted by the Board of Directors.  \
The Board of Directors has the power to create ad hoc committees or task forces as it sees fit. The membership of those committees may be specified directly by the Board of Directors at the time of creation, left to the chair of the newly created committee to decide, or even determined by popular vote of the membership. That decision is left to the Board of Directors.\
Unlike the creation of ad hoc committees or task forces, the creation of new permanent
\i  standing
\i0  committees require a majority vote of the APA membership, not just the Board of Directors. A full proposal for such a committee, specifying its membership structure, voting procedures, rights and responsibilities should be distributed to the membership at least 48 hours before the vote. Dissolving a standing committee requires a majority vote of the membership.\
\pard\pardeftab709
\cf0 The Board of Directors represents the membership, it does not act in opposition.  It is incredibly important, then, that the Board seeks approval from the membership as a whole at every turn.  The Board is a capable of assigning duties to various subcommittees on its own, but all matters of policy should be turned over to the membership for an up or down vote.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\b \cf0 Standing Committees\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\fi-283

\f1\b0\fs20 \cf0 In addition to the Board of Directors, there are currently three standing committees of the APA. All standing committees report directly to the Board of Directors annually.  All standing committees have the right to request an open session at the general conference for whatever they wish. If they want to initiate a vote by membership, however, they must file a request with the Board of Directors. If the Board of Directors approves the request, the standing committee can administer a {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://0AA93AE5-E8ED-4A9A-840E-A15F41092A36"}}{\fldrslt vote.}}\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\b\fs21 \cf0 Research Committee\
\pard\pardeftab709

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 The research committee is charged with distributing grants to fund research as well as enforcing the APA's Ethical Standards in the practice of Psychology and Psychiatry (see Appendix 7). The Research committee should solicit proposals in the form of a 'Call for Research Grants' that specifies both the deadline for submissions, as well as the time frame for reviewing submissions. The Research Committee should revise the enclosed 'Call for Research Grants' on p. 17 to suit their needs.\
\
In the context of the game, winning a grant entitles the bearer to access the student body for a period of one class session, during which time he or she can perform his or her approved research project. After that period, the grantee will be expected to present his or her findings to the membership as a conference paper / report.\
\
The Research committee should take great care in considering the scientific value of each proposal. The APA does not want to be seen supporting poor or biased research! As such, members of the Research committee are strongly advised to carefully consult the '
\b Error! Reference source not found.
\b0 ' on p. 
\b Error! Bookmark not defined.
\b0  as well as the '
\b Error! Reference source not found.
\b0 , on p. 
\b Error! Bookmark not defined.
\b0  of the gamebook.\
\
The Research committee is also charged with hearing and ultimately ruling on charges of ethical transgression. It alone has the power to censure a member of the APA. And because these powers apply equally to all members, including those sitting on the Board of Directors, this power can be exercised without approval by the Board of Directors.\
\
 The Board of Directors should hold an election each year for a new member of the Research committee.  \
\
Members of the Research committee in 1971:\
\pard\pardeftab709\li709
\cf0 L. Tyler (expiring 1972)\
K. Clark (expiring 1973)\
J. Marmor (expiring 1974)\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\b\fs21 \cf0 Nomenclature Committee\
\pard\pardeftab709

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 The Nomenclature committee is charged with maintaining the official terminology of psychology and psychiatry.  This is embodied by the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual, which is the definitive source for definitions and classifications of mental disorders.  It determines who can be diagnosed with what, what treatments are considered responsible and what disorders will be covered by medical insurance. If a condition does not appear in the DSM, psychiatrists cannot treat patients with that condition. Given the increasing importance of health insurance in the 1970s, it is vital to have a standardized diagnostic system to support billable treatments.\
\
Members of the nomenclature committee serve for six years.\
\
Members of the nomenclature committee are strongly advised to carefully consult the '
\b Error! Reference source not found.
\b0 ,' starting on p. 
\b Error! Bookmark not defined.
\b0  of the gamebook.\
\
Members of the nomenclature committee in 1971:\
\pard\pardeftab709\li709
\cf0 G. Albee (expiring 1972)\
J. Spiegel (expiring 1974)\
R. Spitzer (expiring 1976)\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\b\fs21 \cf0 Program Committee\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 The Program Committee is charged with scheduling the conferences. The committee must remember that each conference opens with a public address from the sitting president, and each standing committee has the right to a session at each conference. Not all the standing committees will make use of that time, but each should be approached before the schedule is drawn up.\
Proposals for symposia and presentations should be solicited from the general population. The committee meets in closed session (i.e. after class) to determine the conference schedule after reviewing all of the materials submitted. It is vitally important that the symposia and papers accepted represent the highest standard for academic work. They should be judged by that standard alone, not with respect to theoretical commitment or viewpoint. The conference schedule should be made available to the membership at least 48 hours before the conference begins (i.e. by Friday evening before a new conference).\
The Program Committee is composed of three members, each of which serve three year terms. Hence, the Board of Directors must hold an election for a new member every year.\
The schedule for the conference is set by the 'Program Committee', but there are a number of business events that must take place each year. These are outlined in Table 4.\
Program committee in 1971:\
\pard\pardeftab709\li709
\cf0 E. Hooker (expiring 1972)\
A. Anastasi (expiring 1973)\
P. Gebhard (expiring 1974)\
\
\pard\pardeftab709

\b \cf0 General Schedule
\b0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth9360\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx720\pardeftab709\li720\fi-360
\ls5\ilvl0\cf0 (1)	Presidential Address\
(2)	Board of Directors circulates proposals to be considered by the membership.\
(3)	Symposia on topics proposed by membership, as scheduled by the program committee\
(4)	Open sessions for presenting current research (papers or plenary addresses), as scheduled by the program committee.\
(5)	Board of Directors meets in open session.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx1080\pardeftab709\li1080\fi-360
\ls5\ilvl1\cf0 1.	All committees and task forces report\
2.	Old Business (tabled from previous meeting)\
3.	New Business\
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx1440\pardeftab709\li1440\fi-360
\ls5\ilvl2\cf0 1.	Discussion of any proposals circulated in step (2)\
2.	Create and administer ballots for proposals.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx1080\pardeftab709\li1080\fi-360
\ls5\ilvl1\cf0 4.	Election for vice president, who assumes that position at the close of that conference\
5.	Election for member-at-large on the executive committee (if necessary)\
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx720\pardeftab709\li720\fi-360
\ls5\ilvl0\cf0 (6)	Executive committee meet in closed session, if necessary.\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab709\sb120\sa120

\i \cf0 Table 4: Events that occur at every APA conference \'96 in suggested order\
\pard\pardeftab709

\i0\b \cf0 Elections
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120
\cf0 The following shows elections that must be held each year, and the character vacating that position in parentheses. Characters serve through to the
\i  end
\i0  of the conference in the year indicated. The VP immediately becomes the president: so while Bandura vacates the position of VP at the end of the conference in 1971, he becomes President at that moment.  The election in 1971 is for the VP of 1972, who will be President in 1973.\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1560\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx1440
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1698\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1422\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1560\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1560\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx7200
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1560\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc

\b \cf0 Year\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 VP\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 Board-at-large*\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 Research (replacing)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 Nomenclature\
(replacing)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 Program\
(replacing)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1560\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx1440
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1698\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1422\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1560\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1560\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx7200
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1560\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709

\b0 \cf0 1971\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 1972: (Bandura)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 A (Milgram)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1560\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx1440
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1698\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1422\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1560\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1560\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx7200
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1560\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 1972\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 1973\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 B (Albee)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 (Tyler)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 (Albee)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 (Hooker)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1560\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx1440
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1698\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1422\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1560\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1560\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx7200
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1560\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 1973\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 1974\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 (Clark)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 (Anastasi)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1560\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx1440
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1698\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1422\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1560\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1560\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx7200
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1560\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 1974\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 1975\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 A\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 (Marmor)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 (Spiegel)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 (Gebhard)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1560\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx1440
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1698\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1422\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1560\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1560\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx7200
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1560\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 1975\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 1976\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 B\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 (elected 1972)\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qc
\cf0 (elected 1972)\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab709\sb120\sa120

\i \cf0 Table 5: Elections to be held each year\
\pard\pardeftab709

\i0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Definitions used by the APA\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 The following are quoted from current websites of the American Psychological Association and the American Psychiatric Association.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\i\b \cf0 Definition of "psychologist"\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\i0\b0 \cf0 APA policy on the use of the title "psychologist" is contained in the General Guidelines for Providers of Psychological Services, which define the term "Professional Psychologist" as follows:\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283
\cf0 Psychologists have a doctoral degree in psychology from an organized, sequential program in a regionally accredited university or professional school.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120
\cf0 The APA is not responsible for the specific title or wording of any particular position opening, but it is general pattern to refer to master's-level positions as counselors, specialists, clinicians, and so forth (rather than as "psychologists"). In addition, it is general practice to refer to APA accredited programs as "APA-accredited" rather than "APA approved." The position as described must be in conformity with the statute regulating the use of the title psychologist and the practice of psychology in the state in which the job is available.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\i\b \cf0 Definition of "psychology"\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\i0\b0 \cf0 Psychology is the study of the mind and behavior. The discipline embraces all aspects of the human experience \'97 from the functions of the brain to the actions of nations, from child development to care for the aged. In every conceivable setting from scientific research centers to mental health care services, "the understanding of behavior" is the enterprise of psychologists.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\i\b \cf0 Definition of \'93psychiatrist\'94\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\i0\b0 \cf0 A psychiatrist is a physician who specializes in the diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of mental illnesses and substance use disorders. It takes many years of education and training to become a psychiatrist: He or she must graduate from college and then medical school, and go on to complete four years of residency training in the field of psychiatry. (Many psychiatrists undergo additional training so that they can further specialize in such areas as child and adolescent psychiatry, geriatric psychiatry, forensic psychiatry, psychopharmacology, and/or psychoanalysis.) This extensive medical training enables the psychiatrist to understand the body's functions and the complex relationship between emotional illness and other medical illnesses. The psychiatrist is thus the mental health professional and physician best qualified to distinguish between physical and psychological causes of both mental and physical distress.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\b \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\i \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0 \cf0 Call for Papers and Symposia\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb230\sa259\qc

\f1\i0 \cf0  Introduction\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab709\fi14\sa120
\ls6\ilvl0
\b0 \cf0  I.	The Program committee herein announces a Call of Papers and Symposia for the annual convention of the APA. Please read the relevant rules carefully if you plan to take part in the program.
\i  Note especially the deadlines, the form for abstracts of contributed papers, the forms for symposium proposals, and the proper persons to receive your correspondence.
\i0  The pertinent references have been collected into the box on this page for your {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://9C79BB68-6476-447F-A28B-3531256AAC9B"}}{\fldrslt convenience.}}\
\pard\pardeftab709\li720\fi14\sa120
\cf0 This year will begin with a plenary address by the President. Current plans allow for 2 individual reports and 1 symposium.  The Board of Directors will meet in open session to hear proposals from the membership.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb230\sa259\qc

\b \cf0  Kinds of Programs and Sessions\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\b0 \cf0 The meetings regularly contain many kinds of programs and sessions, including research papers, symposia, group discussions, addresses, business meetings, and film sessions, as well as other events, such as reunions, dinners, social hours and the like. In general, requests for information should be submitted to the Program Committee.\
The APA Program Committee has full responsibility for the conference program. Persons planning to submit proposals that fall outside the lines outlined herein should consult with the chairman of the APA Program Committee for special instructions.\
The chairman of the APA Program Committee should also receive all requests for scheduling of nonsubstantive program activities such as reunions, dinners, social hours, headquarters space, luncheons, and the like. To insure publication in the program all requests must be received by the close of business on the Friday before a conference.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb230\sa259\qc

\b \cf0  Who may participate\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa115
\cf0  Volunteered Papers\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\b0 \cf0  Any member of the APA may read a paper, provided that it has been accepted by the program committee.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa115

\b \cf0  A nonmember of the APA\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\b0 \cf0 may read a paper provided that he is sponsored by a member of the  APA and provided that his qualifications and the quality of his paper are acceptable to the program committee. The APA member who agrees to sponsor a nonmember must submit the abstract of the nonmember's paper to the chairman of the program committee with an accompanying description of the nonmember's scientific qualifications plus the names of recognized scientific societies in which the nonmember holds membership.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa115

\b \cf0  Symposia and invited addresses\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\b0 \cf0 The program committee may invite distinguished nonmembers to contribute to the program as special speakers or as participants in symposia. Because symposia often involve topics extending beyond the competence of APA members, it is frequently desirable to include nonmembers as participants.  Acceptance of a distinguished speaker or of a symposium proposal by the Program Committee constitutes the require sponsorship of nonmember participants.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb230\sa259\qc

\b \cf0  Limits of Individual Participation\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\b0 \cf0 Over the past several years the APA's Board of Directors working with the program committee has developed several ground rules for the limits of individual participation in the annual convention program. These rules were designed to ensure the widest possible participation by APA members and also to prevent troublesome conflicts in the time schedule. Briefly, the rules have been that each member may present no more than one volunteered paper and that each member may, in addition, participate in no more than one additional session such as a symposium, discussion group, and the like. It is still strongly recommended that maximum participation be limited to
\i  one
\i0  symposium or discussion group plus one paper.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb230\sa259\qc

\b \cf0  Individual Reports\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\b0 \cf0 Unless otherwise indicated, four ten-minute papers will be scheduled for each 50-minute session. In instances of multiple authorship the person whose name is listed first will be expected to present the paper.\
A paper previously read at the Annual APA Convention may not be read again, unless it is a substantial elaboration (additional findings, etc.). Two papers which report highly similar findings from a cooperative project may not be read at the convention.\
The APA Board of Directors have voted that, for reasons of economy, this rule should be followed: Abstracts printed in the
\i  American Psychologist
\i0  are limited to 100 words. However, it is recognized that more detailed information will be needed by the Program Committee for use in the selection of papers.  The procedures for research reports and other individual reports are described below.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa115

\b \cf0  Research Reports\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\i\b0 \cf0 Each author of a research report must submit a 100-word abstract (1 copy) for publication if the paper is accepted, and also a 300-word summary (4 copies) for committee publication
\i0 .  If the author desires, tables presenting results may be submitted with the 300-word
\i  summary
\i0 . Not more than one page of tables should be submitted. This means that all the data should have been obtained and the analysis completed at the time the abstract and summary are submitted to the Program Committee.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa115

\b \cf0  Other individual reports\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\b0 \cf0 Theoretical papers, case studies, and the like are perfectly acceptable for the program.  
\i The 100-word abstract of a non-experimental paper must, however, be accompanied by a manuscript of the complete paper in draft form.
\i0  The complete manuscript is required in order that the Program Committee may be in a better position to judge the contribution to the program.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa115

\b \cf0  Form of abstracts and summaries\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\fi-283

\b0\fs20 \cf0 All abstracts and summaries must be typed on one side of the paper only, double-spaced throughout and on 8 1/2\'94 X 11\'94 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://F02381D0-7FC0-4F8B-AFFB-174214B93309"}}{\fldrslt paper.}}\
\pard\pardeftab709\li720\sa115

\b\fs24 \cf0  The 100-word abstract\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\b0 \cf0 The purpose of the published abstract is to provide information concerning the psychological relevance of the paper. .. primarily to justify its scientific validity. Hence abstracts should be concerned with content \'85 rather than with method and technique unless the purpose of the paper is essentially methodological). Examples of good short abstracts from many different fields may be found in
\i  Psychological Abstracts.
\i0 \
Abstracts must be limited in length to 100 words (
\i not
\i0  counting title, author and institution). Longer abstracts will not be printed but will be listed by title only. Abstracts should not contain tables, drawings, footnotes, or bibliographic entries, as such material will not be printed.\
The following outline should be followed in preparing the abstract:\
\pard\pardeftab709\li1418\sa120
\cf0 Title of Paper:\
Author(s):				Sponsor (if any):\
Institution(s):\
     
\i Text of abstract
\i0  (not to exceed 100 words)\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120
\cf0 Because the 100-word abstract will be sent to the printer, do not underline or type anything with all capital letters. The type written abstract should be checked and proofread carefully, since it will be printed in the form in which it is submitted.  Authors are urged to give careful thought to the visual aides that will best facilitate presentations of their data.  If slides are used, members are urged to consider presenting graphic and tabular material on paper.  As a new procedure, authors of accepted papers will be asked to indicate their preference for audio-visual support.\
\pard\pardeftab709\li720\sa115

\b \cf0  The 300-word summary\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\b0 \cf0 The text of the summary will normally include a statement of the problem, subjects used, procedure, results and conclusions.\
Summaries must be limited in length to 300 words (
\i not
\i0  counting title, author, and institution). The 300-word summary may be accompanied by not more than one page of supplementary tables, drawings, footnotes, etc.\
The form for submitting the 300-word summary should be exactly the same as for the 100-word abstract except, of course, for the longer text.\
Four copies of the 300-word summary and the supplementary tables, etc. are required.
\i  Author, sponsor, and institution should appear on the first copy only
\i0 . The first copy is the one that will be used by the Program Committee Chair in the creation of the Conference
\i  Proceedings.
\i0  The other three copies without identifying data will be used by the Program Committee for judging the acceptability of the paper.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa115

\b \cf0  Where to send abstracts and summaries\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\b0 \cf0 Copies of the abstract and summary of a volunteered paper should be sent to the chair of the Program Committee.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb230\sa259\qc

\b \cf0  Symposia\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\b0 \cf0 A symposium provides for several prepared papers on a single theme or problem. It is an excellent form of meeting if the aim is to bring to an audience several diverse or even contradictory views, presented by a number of \'93experts.\'94 The expectation would be that all papers would first be read; then there would be a substantial period for interchanging of views among the speakers (and invited discussants, if desired); finally, a brief period for questions or points raised from the floor. It is important to plan the time so that there is real interaction among participants after the papers. In order to realize the unique value of the symposium the chairman
\i  should select speakers at an early date
\i0 , arrange for the participants to exchange papers
\i  ell in advance of the session
\i0 , and ensure that ample time is allotted for discussion among the participants and contributors from the audience\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa115

\b \cf0  Initiation of symposia\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\b0 \cf0 Any member of the APA may suggest a symposium topic to the chairman of the Program Committee. Such proposals must be made
\i  at an early date
\i0  as a successful symposium requires much planning and correspondence. A member may also submit a fully organized symposium for the Program Committee's consideration.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa115

\b \cf0  Form of symposium proposals\
\pard\pardeftab709\li720\sa115
\cf0  Suggestions to the Program Committee\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\b0 \cf0 When a member only
\i  suggests
\i0  but does
\i  not organize
\i0  a symposium, he should indicate the title of the topic for discussion, comment on the significance of the topic, and list the names and addresses of the proposed chairman and other participants. Such suggestions should be sent to the appropriate divisional program chairman
\i  well in advance of the deadline
\i0  to allow for ample time for planning.\
\pard\pardeftab709\li720\sa115

\b \cf0  Member-Organized symposia\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\b0 \cf0 A member may organize a proposed symposium in complete detail and present it for approval to the Program Committee. Each such proposal should indicate the title of the symposium and list the names of the chairman and participants, together with the titles of participants' contributions, if these titles are to be published.
\i  Five copies of the completed symposium plans must be submitted to the Program Committee by the deadline.
\i0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\li720\sa115

\b \cf0  Symposia organized by the Program Committee\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\b0 \cf0 Symposia may be organized independently by the Program Committee or in response to the requests of members.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb230\sa259\qc

\b \cf0  Special Programs\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\b0 \cf0 The Program Committee should feel free to try new kinds of programs.  Forums, discussion groups, panels, round tables, conferences, and workshops are often valuable alternatives to papers and symposia. Members are invited to send suggestions for new types of programs to the Program Committee. Special sessions should be suggested
\i  well in advance of the deadline to allow for ample time for planning
\i0 . Procedures for initiating special programs should follow in general the procedures for initiating symposia.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb230\sa259\qc

\b \cf0  Miscellaneous Meetings and Special Sessions\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\b0 \cf0 APA boards, committees, etc. desiring business meetings must send to the Chairman of the APA Program Committee by the deadline a statement of estimated attendance, time required, time and day preferred and whether arrangements for luncheon and dinner are desired.\
Luncheons, dinners and social hours may be scheduled for non-APA organizations if they send their request to the chairman of the APA Program Committee by the deadline.  Such scheduled events will be listed in the condensed program.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb230\sa259\qc

\b \cf0  Audio-Visual Presentations\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\b0 \cf0 APA members, commercial film producers or distributors who wish to present new films, film strips, or other audio-visual aids (including sound recordings) should make the Program Committee aware of this fact at the deadline.  The committee will review and select the audio-visual materials which are to be presented as part of the APA program.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb230\sa259\qc

\b \cf0  Exhibits\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\b0 \cf0 APA members are encouraged to exhibit apparatus, teaching aids, and other materials of scientific and applied interest. Commercial agencies are invited to request arrangements for exhibits. All commercial exhibitors will be charged for space. Those wishing to arrange for exhibits must write to the chairman of the Program Committee.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\i\b \cf0 \
Call for Research Grants\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb230\sa259\qc

\f1\i0 \cf0 Introduction\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\b0 \cf0 The Research Committee of the APA herein solicits proposals for research that will forward the disciplines of psychology and psychiatry.
\i  Note especially the deadlines, the form for abstracts of contributed papers, the forms for symposium proposals, and the proper persons to receive your correspondence.
\i0  The pertinent references have been collected into the box on this page for your convenience.\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\fi-283

\fs20 \cf0 Winners will be granted the support of the other members of the class for a period of one class session. The primary investigator must specify in the research proposal how the other students will participate: as subjects, participants, observers or {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://BBFBC547-F798-4145-AA60-E93318736872"}}{\fldrslt confederates.}}\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\fs24 \cf0 Winning grants will be determined by the Research Committee, in accordance with the criteria specified herein.  All proposals must be in line with the APA's ethical guidelines which are in force at the time of submission.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb230\sa259\qc

\b \cf0 Research Supported\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\b0 \cf0 The APA seeks to advance the creation, communication and application of knowledge of the mind and behavior to benefit society and improve people's lives. The APA embraces scientific inquiry into all aspects of the human experience \'97 from the functions of the brain to the actions of nations, from child development to care for the aged. And in every conceivable setting from scientific research centers to mental health care services, "the understanding of behavior" is the enterprise of psychologists.\
Additionally, the APA aspires to advance the understanding of psychology and psychiatry as scientific disciplines. To that end, it will support any research that follows the standards of scientific inquiry and contributes to the central goals of the association.\
It is imperative that all research supported by the APA must be accordance with the ethical guidelines published by the APA.  \
\pard\pardeftab709\sb230\sa259\qc

\b \cf0 Who May Submit Proposals\
\pard\pardeftab709\li720\sa115
\cf0 Members of the APA\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\b0 \cf0 Any member of the APA may submit a proposal for a research grant.  APA membership is limited to those meeting the definition of 'Psychologist' or 'Psychiatrist' used by the APA (see p. 10 of the gamebook).\
\pard\pardeftab709\li720\sa115

\b \cf0 Nonmembers of the APA\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\b0 \cf0 As the APA Research committee seeks to further the disciplines of Psychology and Psychiatry wherever they are practiced, the primary investigator of a grant need ot be a member of the APA. The primary investigator, however,
\i  must
\i0  be a Psychologist or Psychiatrist as defined by the APA (see p. 10 of the gamebook).\
\pard\pardeftab709\li720\sa115

\b \cf0 Confederates, Observers and Assistants\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\b0 \cf0 Individuals working in psychological research should be engaged in some significant way with the academic pursuit of knowledge. Confederates, observers and assistants in research must therefore be students of psychology or psychiatry, if not psychologists or psychiatrists in their own right.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb230\sa259\qc

\b \cf0 Limitations of Participation\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\b0 \cf0 A primary investigator may submit one (1) proposal annually. An individual may serve as a consultant, confederate, observer or assistant on any number of grant proposals in addition to proposing himself as a primary investigator.   \
\pard\pardeftab709\sb230\sa259\qc

\b \cf0 Form of the Proposal\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa115
\cf0 Form of the Proposal\
\pard\pardeftab709\li720\sa115
\cf0 Introduction\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\b0 \cf0 Limited to 100 words, the introduction should specify the phenomenon you wish to examine and why. Briefly describe the phenomenon in general, and discuss how it relates to the study of the human mind and behavior.\
\pard\pardeftab709\li720\sa115

\b \cf0 Background / Review\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\b0 \cf0 Briefly describe the history of research into this phenomenon, and why that history is insufficient. Summarize what is already known about the phenomenon, including the background information you gleaned during your literature review.\
\pard\pardeftab709\li720\sa115

\b \cf0 Rationale\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\b0 \cf0 Describe the questions you are examining and explore any possible implications of your study. This includes listing the specific questions you are addressing, explaining how your research is related to the larger issues raised in the introduction. Specifically describe the claims, models or hypotheses you will evaluate with your research. Explain how your research will contribute to our understanding of the mind.\
\pard\pardeftab709\li720\sa115

\b \cf0 Method and Design\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\b0 \cf0 Describe how you will go about collecting data and testing the questions you wish to examine. While novel methods are encouraged, the primary investigator must be able to specify the scientific validity of any methods proposed.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120
\cf0 \ul \ulc0 Method:\ulnone  How will you collect the data?\
  Describe the general methodology you choose for your study, i.e. observational, experimental, etc.\
\pard\tx838\pardeftab709\li838\fi-360\sa120
\ls7\ilvl0
\f2 \cf0 \'95	
\f1   Explain why this method is the best method for this question.\
\ls7\ilvl0
\f2 \'95	
\f1   Specify who will participate in your study, and why.\
\ls7\ilvl0
\f2 \'95	
\f1   Describe the sample you would test and explain why you have chosen this sample. Include age, and language background and socio-economic information, if relevant to the design.\
\ls7\ilvl0
\f2 \'95	
\f1 Are there any participants you would exclude? Why, why not?\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120
\cf0 \ul \ulc0 Design\ulnone \
\pard\tx838\pardeftab709\li838\fi-360\sa120
\ls8\ilvl0
\f2 \cf0 \'95	
\f1 Describe what kinds of manipulations/variations you would make or test for in order to test your hypothesis(es).\
\ls8\ilvl0
\f2 \'95	
\f1 Describe the factors you would vary if you were presenting a person with stimulus sentences.\
\ls8\ilvl0
\f2 \'95	
\f1 Explain how varying these factors would allow you to confirm or disconfirm your hypotheses.\
\ls8\ilvl0
\f2 \'95	
\f1 Explain what significant differences you would need to find to confirm or disconfirm your hypothesis(es). In particular, how could your hypothesis(es) be disconfirmed by your data?\
\ls8\ilvl0
\f2 \'95	
\f1 Controls: What kinds of factors would you need to control for in your study?\
\ls8\ilvl0
\f2 \'95	
\f1 Describe what types of effects would be likely to occur which would make your results appear to confirm, or to disconfirm your hypothesis(es).\
\ls8\ilvl0
\f2 \'95	
\f1 Describe how you can by your design rule out or control for apparent effects.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120
\cf0 \ul \ulc0 Procedure\ulnone \
\pard\tx838\pardeftab709\li838\fi-360\sa120
\ls9\ilvl0
\f2 \cf0 \'95	
\f1 How are you going to present the stimuli?\
\ls9\ilvl0
\f2 \'95	
\f1 What is the participant in the experiment going to do?\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120
\cf0 \ul \ulc0 Analysis\ulnone \
\pard\tx838\pardeftab709\li838\fi-360\sa120
\ls10\ilvl0
\f2 \cf0 \'95	
\f1 How will you analyze the results?\
\ls10\ilvl0
\f2 \'95	
\f1 What kind of results would confirm your hypothesis?\
\ls10\ilvl0
\f2 \'95	
\f1 What kind of results would disconfirm your hypothesis\
\pard\pardeftab709\li720\sa115

\b \cf0 Significance and Contribution\
References\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa115
\cf0 Where to send your proposal\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\b0 \cf0 Three copies of the proposal should be sent to the chairman of the Research committee.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb230\sa259\qc

\b \cf0 Reports\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\b0 \cf0 Research findings should be submitted to the conference committee for the annual national conference following the awarding of the grant. The primary investigator should follow the guidelines found under ' Research Reports' (see item 13 in the '
\b Error! Reference source not found.Error! Reference source not found.
\b0 ') in drafting his research report. Winning a grant in no way guarantees inclusion in the following year's conference program.\
}