{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab709
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf0 \
Brief History of Homosexuality in America\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\i0\b0\fs24 \cf0 While homosexual behavior has appeared throughout human history, the notion of homosexuality as an orientation or personality is relatively recent.  The etymology of the word 'homosexual' itself shows the intimate connection between the idea of sexual orientation and the history of psychiatry.  According to the OED, the term first appears in print in English in C. G. Chaddock translation of R. von Krafft-Ebing 1892
\i  Psychopathia Sexualis
\i0 . Relevant sections are reproduced in the appendix.\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\fi-283

\fs20 \cf0 The idea of homosexuality as a lifestyle is, in the English speaking world at least, indelibly linked to the public persona of Oscar Wilde. Wilde was a flamboyant public figure, known for dressing immaculately and flamboyantly, his sharp wit and his talent at dinner conversation.  While he was studying classics at Oxford, he began advocating aestheticism, the view that aesthetic values trump moral or social values in the understanding of art and literature. In 1895, he and his companion Alfred Taylor were convicted of acts of 'gross {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://A8381E19-A4C0-4963-9123-A82A724CCE9E"}}{\fldrslt indecency'}} and sentenced to two years hard labor.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\fs24 \cf0 Their trial was 'the trial of the century' in the English upper-class, and to this day, many of Wilde's personal characteristics inform the common stereotypes of homosexual men. For example:   fastidiousness with respect to personal appearance, extraordinary wittiness and social adeptness, esp. with upper-class women, are all traceable to Wilde himself.\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\fi-283
\cf0 The next fifty years were not kind to gay folks.  \'93Treatments\'94 for homosexuals included surgical interventions such as castration, vasectomies, lobotomies, sterilization, clitoridectomies, hysterectomies; chemical interventions such as sexual stimulants, depressants, hormonal injections, and pharmacological shock; psychological interventions included adjustment therapy, psychoanalysis, hypnosis, aversion therapy that included electric shock and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://EBB56573-714F-436F-9AF3-7D3D63E0A49B"}}{\fldrslt desensitization;}} and social psychological interventions patterned on Alcoholics Anonymous like 'Homosexuals Anonymous' and others.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120
\cf0 One of the saddest stories of this era is that of Alan Turing, who I mentioned in the previous section. Turing was one of the greatest mathematicians and logicians of his era, if not the greatest. During WWII, he worked at Bletchley park as one of Churchill's famed code-breakers. His efforts in breaking the German codes lead directly to the development of modern logic and the invention of the electronic computer. He is generally considered to be the founder of both modern cryptography and computer science.  Quite literally, Turing is to the contemporary information age what Newton was to the age of mechanics.\
But Turing was also gay. In 1952, he was prosecuted and convicted for being a homosexual. Sentenced to hormone therapy and stripped of his military clearance, he committed suicide on June 7\super th\nosupersub , 1954. In 2009, the British Government started a program of accepting online petitions from citizens of the UK. One of the first to be submitted, and promoted by Richard Dawkins, was a call for an official apology to Alan Turing for unjust prosecution. On 10 September 2009, Prime Minister Gordon Brown issued a formal apology to Alan Turing, stating:\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283
\cf0 It is thanks to men and women who were totally committed to fighting fascism, people like Alan Turing, that the horrors of the Holocaust and of total war are part of Europe\'92s history and not Europe\'92s present.\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\fi-283

\fs20 \cf0 So on behalf of the British government, and all those who live freely thanks to Alan\'92s work I am very proud to say: we\'92re sorry, you deserved so much {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://51335F09-4A86-4140-A807-167CCCD980B1"}}{\fldrslt better.}}\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\fs24 \cf0 During this period, advocates for homosexuals (at this time called 'homophile' organizations) focused primarily on changing the stereotypes of the homosexual as a step towards ending  the criminalization of homosexual acts as well as the psychological and medical 'treatments.'  There was little activity within the scientific and academic communities on this issue. That all started to change when a young social psychologist named Evelyn Hooker started teaching at UCLA.\
During WWII, young men and women who were accused of homosexuality in Pacific theater of operations for the US Military tended to be discharged in California ports, including San Diego, Long Beach and San Francisco. Many, if not most, of these young people could not return to their hometowns because of their dishonorable discharge from the military. As a result, a organic community of homosexuals began taking shape in many of these cities.\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\fi-283

\fs20 \cf0 Hooker became friends with one of her graduate students, Sam Fromm. Sam was gay. In 1943, he challenged her to study 'people like him' to determine if they were mentally ill (specifically 'neurotic') independently of the biases against homosexuality inherent in the psychiatric {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://2373462F-96CE-40A1-BFC9-398F6277061B"}}{\fldrslt tradition.}} In a 1998 interview, Hooker explained the significance of this phrase:\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283

\fs24 \cf0  \'93This bright young man, somewhere in his early thirties, had obviously been thinking about this for a long time. And by \'91people like us\'92 he meant, \'91We\'92re homosexual, but we don\'92t need psychiatrists. We don\'92t need psychologists. We\'92re not insane. We\'92re not any of those things they say we are.\'94 (Eric Marcus, Windy City Times, October 31, 2007 \'95 vol 23 no 07)\
\pard\pardeftab709
\cf0 During the 1940's, Evelyn Hooker became a trusted 'outsider' of the gay community in L.A., but didn't want to conduct research on people she saw as her friends.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\i\b \cf0 Kinsey\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\i0\b0 \cf0 In 1948, Alfred C. Kinsey (1894 \'96 August 25, 1956) published
\i  Sexual Behavior in the Human Male
\i0 . It was revolutionary.\
Kinsey and his assistants had interviewed  5300 white males from all walks of American life. The interviews required up to 521 questions, depending on the interviewees experiences, with the average being around 300.  Kinsey reported that a large number of men\'97up to 45%\'97reported having at least one homosexual encounter during his adolescence.  These encounters are most frequent at young age, dropping to a stable 10% of the population by age 20-25. These numbers, Kinsey fears, may not tell the whole story because:\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283
\cf0 The social significance of the homosexual is considerably emphasized by the fact that both Jewish and Christian churches have considered this aspect of human sexuality to be abnormal and immoral. \'85 Social custom and our Anglo-American law are sometimes very severe in penalizing one who is discovered to have had homosexual relations. In consequence, many persons who have had such experiences are psychically disturbed, and not a few of them have been in open conflict with the social organization. (p. 610)\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120
\cf0 The Kinsey report found that homosexual activity as a common part of male sexual development.  Self-identifying as a homosexual, or engaging exclusively in homosexual activity, was found to be more rare. But at 10%, almost twice as high as any previous scientific estimate. Almost as importantly, he identified the source of psychic disturbance
\i  not
\i0  to be the homosexual activity itself, but the social structures that penalize such behavior.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\b \cf0 Early 'Homophile' movements
\i \
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\fi-283

\f1\i0\b0\fs20 \cf0 Two years after the publication of the Kinsey report, a group of 'homophile' activists founded the Mattachine society, which is now generally recognized as the first national gay-rights {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://CB194DD1-919C-4506-A1A9-EA98F7580B37"}}{\fldrslt organization.}} The Mattachine society, named for a European tradition of theater masks, sought to change the prevailing view of homosexuality by presenting the membership as no different than the mainstream heterosexual society. Its members dressed in suits and skirts, and showed no 'outward signs' of homosexuality. These 'outward signs' are, of course, those stereotypes we identified as originating with Oscar Wilde. Mattachine society demonstrations\'97held annually in front of Independence Hall in Philadelphia on July 4\super th\nosupersub \'97were sober affairs of men in gray suits and women in dresses walking up and down in straight lines.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\fs24 \cf0 The Daughters of Bilitis were a secret social club for Lesbians founded in San Franscisco in the 1950s by Del Martin and Phyllis Lyon. To stay in touch with its members, it created a magazine called 'The Ladder', which came under the editorship of Barbara Gittings in 1963. It flourished under Gittings' direction, growing from a simple hand-stapled newsletter to a true 40-page magazine.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\i\b \cf0 Connecting the dots: Evelyn Hooker\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\i0\b0 \cf0 After the publication of the Kinsey report, Hooker finally decided to meet Fromm's challenge. She designed an experiment to determine if homosexuals were mentally disturbed.  In 1954, she received a grant from the National Institute on Mental Health to run her study. She recruited 30 homosexuals the Mattachine society as well as the gay community generally. An equal number of heterosexual men were recruited from civil organizations around the city. Individuals in the groups were matched with respect to age, IQ and education level. All people currently in therapy for mental health were excluded from the study.  This alone was a major step forward in the study of male homosexuality, as all previous psychological studies had found their subjects in psychiatric wards, army barracks or clinical settings.\
Hooker tested the resulting 60 men using standard psychological tests: the Rorschach, Thematic Apperception Test (TAT) and the Make-A-Picture-Story Test (MAPS). The data was sent to psychologists who were experts on reading these tests, and the tests scored.  Hooker found no significant difference was found between the groups, indicating that homosexual men were no more likely to have mental disturbances (i.e. to be neurotic) than equivalent heterosexual men.\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\fi-283

\fs20 \cf0 Hooker presented her findings at the 1956 APA in Chicago. Her paper was published in {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://0B124077-EA56-4940-BAD6-E54CE04F7C2F"}}{\fldrslt 1957,}} shortly after Sam Fromm's death.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\i\b\fs24 \cf0 Stonewall: The street activists\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\fi-283

\f1\i0\b0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab709
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\fi-283
\cf0 By the 1960s, tensions were growing in the gay community. Another group of younger {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://76550411-8600-49F2-B901-57086044E599"}}{\fldrslt gay}} activists were growing irritated with both the slow progress of the Mattachine society and its restrictions on behavior. In 1968, a group of young 'street-activists' disrupted a meeting of the American Medical Association in New York by shouting down Charles Socarides, a Psychiatrist known for his psychoanalytic treatment of homosexuals.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\fs24 \cf0 Everything changed forever on Saturday, June 28, 1969 at 1:20 AM, when the police raided the Stonewall Inn in Greenwich Village. The gay and lesbian patrons of the Stonewall resisted arrest. Events escalated. The riots that followed lasted until Wednesday night, July 3rd.\'a0\
On the Fourth, the gay community\'92s attention turned to Independence Hall in Philadelphia and the Mattachine society\'92s annual march. As usual, Frank Kameny and Barbara Gittings, long time leaders of that gay and lesbian advocacy group, required the women to wear skirts and men suits. When couples held hands, Kameny famously scolded \'93None of that!\'94 But the tide had turned. The young protestors from Stonewall would not conform. Kameny\'92s approach of assimilation had been surpassed by the direct action begun at Stonewall. Militant groups such as the Gay Liberation Front and the Gay Activist Alliance sprouted up across the country overnight (both started in New York). Plans were made to confront those who continued to classify homosexuality as a mental disorder, and directly challenge those who continued to treat homosexuals using barbaric methods.\
And those plans included San Francisco, site of the 1970 American Psychiatric Association\'92s annual convention. And you already know what happened there.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Further Resources\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 The story of Hooker and Fromm is retold in a number of places, including in\
\pard\pardeftab709\li709\sa120
\cf0  \'93Hooker, Evelyn\'94 in Aldrich, R., & Wotherspoon, G. (2001). Who's who in contemporary gay and lesbian history. Routledge.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120
\cf0 Kinsey, A. C., Pomeroy, W. B., & Martin, C. E. (1998).
\i  Sexual behavior in the human male
\i0 . Indiana University Press.\
}