{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldItalicMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-ItalicMT;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT;\f4\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;\f5\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;
\f6\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f7\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab709
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf0 ## Paul Gebhard, PhD `
\f1\i0\b0\fs24 \\index\{Gebhard, Paul|(\}`\{=latex\}
\f0\i\b\fs28 \
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0 \cf0 Starting Credibility: 4
\f0\b \
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f3\i0\fs24 \cf0 ### Your Biography\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f4\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 You were born July 3, 1917 in Rocky Ford, Colorado and obtained your B.S. from Harvard University in 1940, your Ph.D from Harvard University in 1947. You have worked in the Department of Anthropology at Indiana University from 1947 until the present, serving as the Director at the Institute for Sex Research starting 1956, after the death of your mentor, Alfred C. Kinsey.\
\
You are an Anthropologist, not a psychologist. Anthropology has a varied and checkered history, especially in relation to psychology and sociology. All three of these fields purport to study the human mind and human organizations, but they have gone about it in very different ways. 
\f4\b\fs28 Pay close attention to the discussion of Margaret Mead in `\\fullref\{margaretmead\}`\{=latex\}. It is probably worth reading the Introduction to *Coming of Age in American Samoa* to understand the call for Anthropological research. One ahistorical note: Mead\'92s study was essentially debunked in the mid-1980s. It is now taught as an example of confirmation bias. You will have to be *very* cautious when studying to ensure that you can present Mead\'92s work as it would have been in the 1970\'92s---a foundational text in the discipline and a paradigm of good science, *not* as it is taught today. 
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\
The president of the APA in 1957, Lee J. Cronbach, titled his presidential address 'The Two Disciplines of Scientific Psychology.' Compare what Cronbach says about 'correlational' psychology to the method used by Kinsey.  \
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f3\b \cf0 \
\
### Game Objectives\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f4\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 Get on the Spitzer taskforce
\f5\fs28 `\\index\{Spitzer Taskforce\}`\{=latex\}
\f1\fs24 . You're an independent on all other issues that may come before the task force or the membership. It is important that you use your judgment on what an Anthropologist and sexologist would have thought of the various other proposals that come forward.\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b \cf0 \
#### Specific Assignment\
\
**Initial Committee Membership**\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f1\i0\b0 \cf0 `\\begin\{
\f6\fs22 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
service\}[Gebhard]\\label\{service:gebhard\}\

\f1\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 You are an initial member of the Program committee, with your term expiring in 1974.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f6\fs22 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\\end\{service\}`\{=latex\}\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f1\i0\b0 \cf0 You are an initial member of the Program committee, with your term expiring in 1974.
\f0\i\b \

\f1\i0\b0 \
##### Demedicalization\
\
Technically indeterminate, but your respect for Hooker\'92s`\\index\{Hooker, Evelyn\}`\{=latex\} data entails that you are decidedly pro-demedicalization.\
\
##### Research\
\
Give a formal presentation of the findings of the Kinsey report in 1972, highlighting homosexuality in both mail and female. I. Beiber's 1962 book
\f7\i  Homosexuality: A Psychoanalytic Study
\f1\i0  is often seen as a response to the Kinsey report, so be prepared for significant questions from Socarides`\\index\{Socarides, Charles\}`\{=latex\} and Beiber.\
\
##### Association Business / DSM-III\
`\\begin\{proposal\}[Gebhard]\\label\{proposal:gebhard\}\
Submit a proposal to have the APA formally recognize Evelyn Hooker for her Distinguished Contribution to Psychology in the Public Interest.\\end\{proposal\}`\{=latex\}\
Submit a proposal to have the APA formally recognize Evelyn Hooker for her Distinguished Contribution to Psychology in the Public Interest.\
\
`\\begin\{
\f6\fs22 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
writingtask\}[Gebhard]\\label\{writingtask:gebhard\}\

\f1\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 presentation of the findings of the Kinsey report in 1972, highlighting homosexuality in both mail and female. 
\f6\fs22 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\\end\{writingtask\}`\{=latex\}\
\
If Spitzer gets a Taskforce for the DSMIII, get appointed to it as a voice of Anthropology.
\f1\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
##### Social responsibilities of social scientists\
\
Indeterminate\
\
##### Definition of \'91mental illness\'92 and fission of the APA\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f1\i0\b0 \cf0 You are neutral on the 
\f3\b definition of mental illness
\f1\b0 , although you are sympathetic to those views that see mental illness as dysfunction of culture, not of the individual. \
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f1\i0\b0 \cf0 \
You are encouraged to add to the liminality of the game by decorating the room in themes corresponding to the different locations: 71: Washington DC, 72: Dallas, 73: Honolulu, 74: Philadelphia, 75: Chicago.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f3\b \cf0 ### Must Read\
[#Mead:1928uk]\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f4\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 Kinsey Reports:\
\pard\pardeftab709\li709\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Kinsey, Alfred C. et al. (1948/1998). Sexual Behavior in the Human Male. Philadelphia: W.B. Saunders; Bloomington, IN: Indiana U. Press. Currently out of print, but on google books.\
Kinsey, Alfred C. et al. (1953/1998). Sexual Behavior in the Human Female. Philadelphia: W.B. Saunders; Bloomington, IN: Indiana U. Press. Preview available on google books.\
Gebhard, Paul H. and Johnson, Alan B. (1979/1998). The Kinsey Data: Marginal Tabulations of 1938-1963 Interviews Conducted by the Institute for Sex Research. Philadelphia: W.B. Saunders; Bloomington, IN: Indiana U. Press. Preview available on google books.\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Cornbach, L. J. (1956) \'93The Two Disciplines of Scientific Psychology\'94
\f7\i  American Psychologist
\f1\i0 , 12: 671-684. Available at <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://psychclassics.yorku.ca/Cronbach/Disciplines/"}}{\fldrslt http://psychclassics.yorku.ca/Cronbach/Disciplines/}}>\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f7\i \cf0 #### Secondary Sources
\f0\b \
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f1\i0\b0 \cf0 'Paul Gebhard Interview' by NPR 'New River Media' available at <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.pbs.org/fmc/interviews/gebhard.htm"}}{\fldrslt http://www.pbs.org/fmc/interviews/gebhard.htm}}>\
\pard\tx8572\pardeftab709\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f4\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\i \cf0 `
\f1\i0\b0\fs24 \\index\{Gebhard, Paul|)\}`\{=latex\}
\f4\b\fs28 \
}