{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red40\green40\blue40;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c15686\c15686\c15686;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\deftab709
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf0 ## D. Fordney Settlage, MD\
\

\b0 Starting Credibility: 7
\b \
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\i0 \cf0 ### Your Biography\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 You were born in 1940. You became an American physician and sex therapist best known for your work on sexual function and dysfunction. Your BS is from the University of Arizona (1960) and your MD (1964) from University of California at Los Angeles.\
\
You began your career looking at sperm motility after intercourse, but you've also been interested in the sexual experiences among teenaged girls.\
\
You are currently working on a comprehensive overview of heterosexual dysfunction. You served as Assistant Professor, Obstetrics and Gynecology Division of Reproductive Biology at the Los Angeles County-USC Medical Center.\
\
You were an early critic of gynecologist James C. Burt, sometimes called the 'Love Surgeon' and his involuntary surgeries on the vulvas of patients. Burt performed a number of reconstructive surgeries (perhaps hundreds) on women who had recently given birth, when they were still under the effects of episiotomy. In his words 'Women are structurally inadequate for intercourse. This is a pathological condition amenable to surgery.'' In franker terms, he also said that his surgery would turn women into ''horny little mice'' and asserted that ''the difference between rape and rapture is salesmanship.'' (1957, quoted in a 1988 NY Times article following his censorship by the Ohio Medical Board). You, as D. Fordney-Settlage has said, "Dr. Burt is a nice person but he is a zealot and that makes him dangerous."\
\
During your tenure at the University of Arizona Medical Center\'92s fertility clinic, you assisted in helping hundreds of couples with fertility issues bring babies to term. During the course of your career, a debate ensued as to whether the availability of contraceptives was promoting pre-marital sex.\
\
You conducted a study of 500 unwed teenage girls (aged 13-17) that had sought professional help in obtaining contraceptives. Your findings provided sound grounds to conclude that not only did the availability of contraceptives fail in promoting sexual behavior, but that a lack of contraceptive availability would not deter teenage girls from participating in sexual behavior. The study demonstrated the sexual behavior in teenage girls pre-dated the use of contraceptives, and that when available, teenage girls would make use of such options in order to prevent unwanted pregnancy, impediments to future and current education, forced marriage, illegitimacy, and abortion.\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 ### Game Objectives\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 You primary objective is to get on the Spitzer taskforce to advocate for psychosexual disorders in the new taxonomy. Make certain that female sexuality is not maligned as a psychological disorder in the DSM-III or the definition of 'mental health.' Your secondary objective is to advocate for women's sexual health more broadly. You have a long-standing friendship with both Richard Green and Harold Lief.\
\
There is very little research on women's sexuality. Kinsey's famous study causes a good deal of consternation. Even today, the issue of homosexuality seems largely to be about
\i  male
\i0  homosexuality, with lesbianism hardly mentioned as an afterthought. Work with Leona Tyler in her efforts to get a Committee on Women in Psychology, and more importantly for you, the Committee on the Psychology of Women.\
\
The issue of female sexuality has become particularly hot recently with the popularization of oral contraceptives. While most people favor contraceptives for women who are already sexually active, there is a great controversy over whether allowing young women access to contraceptives will
\i  make
\i0  sexually active. You are interested in settling that question.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\i\b \cf0 #### Specific Assignments\
\
**Initial Committee Membership**\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f2\i0\b0\fs22 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 No initial committee membership, but eligible to run for any.\
\
##### Demedicalization\
\
Officially neutral, but your interest in equal medical and psychological treatment for women extends to the treatment of lesbians.\
<!--\\begin\{
\f2\fs22 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
proposal\}[Fordney-Settlage]\\label\{proposal:fordneysettlage\}\

\f1\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Find a compromise between Albee and Hopcke regarding the proper roles of both psychiatry and psychology.
\f2\fs22 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\\end\{proposal\}-->
\f1\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
##### Research\
<!--\\begin\{
\f2\fs22 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
researchtask\}[Fordney-Settlage]\\label\{researchtask:fordneysettlage\}\

\f1\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Give a paper critiquing the history of psychiatric and psychological theory of sexuality as overly focused on male sexuality Preferably 1975.
\f2\fs22 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\\end\{researchtask\}-->
\f0\i\b\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \

\f1\i0\b0 In 1972, propose to the research committee a study on the sexual experiences of younger women who are seeking contraceptives for the first time, based on her actual 1973 paper. \
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f2\fs22 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 In 1975, give a paper critiquing the history of psychiatric and psychological theory of sexuality as overly focused on male sexuality. You should be specific here \'96 the game book appendicies contain the small amount of work by Freud on Lesbianism, and Krafft-Ebbing's
\i  *Psychopathia Sexualis*
\i0  contains a brief mention at the very end. Jung's theories of female homosexuality are worth exploring as well. Consider how 'normal' sexual maturation has been defined in male terms, and how the explanations are inequal (i.e. compare the 'Oedipal complex' to the 'Electra complex'). This will take some work. Be specific and as thorough as you can \'96 it will be important to consider as the DSM-III is considered.\
<!--\\begin\{
\f2\fs22 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
writingtask\}[Fordney-Settlage]\\label\{writingtask:fordneysettlage\}\

\f1\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Give a paper critiquing the history of psychiatric and psychological theory of sexuality as overly focused on male sexuality Preferably 1975.
\f2\fs22 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\\end\{writingtask\}-->
\f1\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
##### Association Business / DSM-III\
\
As you straddle the fence between the MD and PhDs, the Medical doctors and the Psychologists, you are in the unique position to create a compromise between Albee and Hopcke regarding the rights and duties of the psychologists and psychiatrists in the treatment of patients in 1972.\
\
Make certain that female sexuality is not maligned as a psychological disorder in the DSM-III or the definition of 'mental health.' \
\
Support Leona Tyler\'92s efforts to encourage research on women\'92s psychology\
\
##### Social responsibilities of social scientists\
\
Indeterminate\
\
##### Definition of \'91mental illness\'92 and fission of the APA\
\
You are neutral on the **d
\b efinition of mental illness**
\b0 , so long as it isn\'92t gendered in some tacit way.\
\
**Fission**: Join R. Green in founding the International Academy of Sex Research if the APA breaks up.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 \
### Must Read\
\pard\pardeftab709\ri450

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\pardeftab709\li720\fi-360\sa120
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 Fordney Settlage, DS, Baroff S, Cooper D 1973. Sexual experience of younger teenage girls seeking contraceptive assistance for the first time. Family Planning Perspectives, Vol. 5, No. 4 Autumn, 1973, p 223-226 (available on Jstor)\
\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab709\li720\fi-360\sa120
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 Fordney-Settlage DS 1975. Heterosexual dysfunction: Evaluation of treatment procedures. Archives of Sexual Behavior, Volume 4, Number 4 / July, 1975 (DOI: 10.1007/BF01541722)\
\pard\pardeftab709

\b \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\i \cf0 #### Secondary Sources\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li283

\f1\i0\b0 \cf0 <!--\\url\{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.museumstuff.com/learn/topics/Diane_Fordney::sub::Selected_Publications"}}{\fldrslt http://www.museumstuff.com/learn/topics/Diane_Fordney::sub::Selected_Publications}}\}-->\
\
<!--\\url\{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.museumstuff.com/learn/topics/Diane_Fordney::sub::Career"}}{\fldrslt http://www.museumstuff.com/learn/topics/Diane_Fordney::sub::Career}}\}-->\
\pard\pardeftab709
\cf0 \
\
\
}