{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sb240\sa60\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 ##### Introspection: Wundt\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 `\\index\{Wundt, Wilhelm |(\}`\{=latex\}Today, textbooks generally claim Wilhelm Wundt's lab at Leipzig is the first true psychological laboratory.  Helmholtz's lab, it is argued, was a lab of physiology, not psychology. But that distinction can be argued over. Wundt, unlike Helmholtz, believed that the causal relations governing ideas and experience were of a different *kind* than those governing the physical world. And it was the challenge of psychology to discover those laws and observe those regularities.\
\
Wundt was, however, a student of Helmholtz. He didn\'92t run off an join Descartes in meditation. Rather, he believed that the proper explanation of the laws of psychology would make use of the properties of the central nervous system. In Wundt's own words:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li283\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 >Physiology and psychology cover, between them, the field of vital phenomena; they deal with the facts of life at large, and in particular with the facts of human life. Physiology is concerned with all those phenomena of life that present themselves to us in sense perception as bodily processes, and accordingly form part of that total environment which we name the external world.
\f0\b  **Psychology, on the other hand, seeks to give account of the interconnection of processes which are evinced by our own consciousness**
\f1\b0 , or which we infer from such manifestations of the bodily life in other creatures as indicate the presence of a consciousness similar to our own. (1902, p. 1)\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Shortly thereafter, he asserts that Psychology is \'93**
\f0\b the investigation of conscious process in the modes of connection peculiar to them
\f1\b0 .**\'94 ([p. 2][#Wundt:1902vf]) \
\
As consciousness is a singular and unique phenomenon in this world, it can only be approached with the investigative tools unique to consciousness: direct experience of consciousness by ourselves of inferred in others on the basis of direct observation and analogy. `\\index\{Introspectionist principle\}`\{=latex\}\
\
This does not mean, however, that a science of psychology is purely introspective. On the contrary, Wundt proposed a 'physiological psychology': a theory of conscious experience informed by our physiological understanding of the brain, what Wundt calls the 'bodily substrate of mental life.'\
\
The nervous system was thought to be made up of a 'central substance' that maintained an equilibrium and 'nerve-fibres' that connected cells together. This 'central stuff' was understood not to just transmit information, but to modify it in one of two ways: first, if it were exposed to repeated stimulus, the amount of energy needed to produce a response would decrease, and second, in some cases, it could invert the signal into its opposite (i.e. from 'x more than equilibrium' to 'x less than equilibrium'). \
\
Wundt sought to reduce Hume\'92s four standard 'Laws of Association' of ideas---similarity, contrast, spatial and temporal contiguity---to simple 'internal connection', as 'contrast' is a completion of an idea in the same way 'similarity' is; and contiguity in space and time are external, not internal, relationships. Ideas tend to produce their contrasting idea, rather than ideas which are similar, when they are accompanied by strong feelings, as all feelings have a kind of 'elasticity' to them, always presenting with its opposite feeling implicitly.\
\
'Internal connection,' is then is explained by what Wundt called 'central innervation,' or the properties of the nervous system. ([#Wundt:1876vu]) A fundamental law of neuroscience, even today, is that 'neurons that wire together fire together.' That is Wundt\'92s claim simplified. For Wundt and his followers, the similarity and contrast of ideas was explainable by the excitation and inhibition properties of these nerves.`\\index\{Wundt, Wilhelm |)\}`\{=latex\}\
}