{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab709
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf0 Paul Gebhard, PhD\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f1\i0\fs24 \cf0 Your Biography
\f0\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 You were born July 3, 1917 in Rocky Ford, Colorado and obtained your B.S. from Harvard University in 1940, your Ph.D from Harvard University in 1947. You have worked in the Department of Anthropology at Indiana University from 1947 until the present, serving as the Director at the Institute for Sex Research starting 1956, after the death of your mentor, Alfred C. Kinsey.\
You are an Anthropologist, not a psychologist.  Anthropology has a varied and checkered history, especially in relation to psychology and sociology.  All three of these fields purport to study the human mind and human organizations, but they have gone about it in very different ways.  The president of the APA in 1957, Lee J. Cronbach, titled his presidential address 'The Two Disciplines of Scientific Psychology.' Compare what Cronbach says about 'correlational' psychology to the method used by Kinsey.    \
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\b \cf0 Game Objectives
\f0\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 Get on the Spitzer task force. You're an independent on all other issues that may come before the task force or the membership. It is important that you use your judgment on what an Anthropologist and sexologist would have thought of the various other proposals that come forward.\
You are neutral on the 
\b definition of mental illness
\b0 . \
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\i\b \cf0 Specific Assignments\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\i0\b0 \cf0 Give a formal presentation of the findings of the Kinsey report in 1972, highlighting homosexuality in both mail and female.  I. Beiber's 1962 book
\i  Homosexuality: A Psychoanalytic Study
\i0  is often seen as a response to the Kinsey report, so be prepared for significant questions from Socarides and Beiber.\
Submit a proposal to have the APA formally recognize Evelyn Hooker for her Distinguished Contribution to Psychology in the Public Interest.\
You are an initial member of the Program committee, with your term expiring in 1974. Review the model schedule in the gamebook, and solicit proposals from your peers. You are encouraged to add to the liminality of the game by decorating the room in themes corresponding to the different locations: 71: Washington DC, 72: Dallas, 73: Honolulu, 74: Philadelphia, 75: Chicago.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\b \cf0 Must Read
\f0\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\sa120

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 Kinsey Reports:\
\pard\pardeftab709\li709\sa120
\cf0 Kinsey, Alfred C. et al. (1948/1998). Sexual Behavior in the Human Male. Philadelphia: W.B. Saunders; Bloomington, IN: Indiana U. Press. Currently out of print, but on google books.\
Kinsey, Alfred C. et al. (1953/1998). Sexual Behavior in the Human Female. Philadelphia: W.B. Saunders; Bloomington, IN: Indiana U. Press. Preview available on google books.\
Gebhard, Paul H. and Johnson, Alan B. (1979/1998). The Kinsey Data: Marginal Tabulations of 1938-1963 Interviews Conducted by the Institute for Sex Research. Philadelphia: W.B. Saunders; Bloomington, IN: Indiana U. Press. Preview available on google books.\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\sa120
\cf0 Cornbach, L. J. (1956) \'93The Two Disciplines of Scientific Psychology\'94
\i  American Psychologist
\i0 , 12: 671-684. Available at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://psychclassics.yorku.ca/Cronbach/Disciplines/"}}{\fldrslt http://psychclassics.yorku.ca/Cronbach/Disciplines/}}\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\i \cf0 Secondary Sources
\f0\b \
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\sa120

\f1\i0\b0 \cf0 'Paul Gebhard Interview' by NPR 'New River Media' available at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.pbs.org/fmc/interviews/gebhard.htm"}}{\fldrslt http://www.pbs.org/fmc/interviews/gebhard.htm}}\
\pard\tx8572\pardeftab709
\cf0 \
}