{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120

\f0\fs24 \cf0 ### Rules and Procedures\
\
Generally speaking, our students come to psychology and psychiatry through textbooks. And as a result, they are primed to believe, unreflectively, that contemporary narrative of these disciplines is settled fact. Furthermore, these students know nothing of the rise and regularization of health insurance companies and billing procedures following the inception of Medicare and Medicaid in 1965. For them, managed care, billable hours and check-box diagnoses have always been a part of their medical experience. It was not in 1970. \
\
Since the 1970s, the psychiatrists and clinical psychologists have been under extraordinary pressure to create a system of diagnosis that will allow them to be compensated for their work under the system of managed care. Spitzer's shift from etiological psychiatry to descriptive psychiatry was a major step in that struggle. \
\
It is difficult to get them to feel the pressure to legitimize psychiatry and psychology that drove much of the work in this era. You can help set the stage by hanging posters of advertising for pharmaceuticals and health insurance policies from the era. I've highlighted a few examples in Section <!--\\fullref\{adsforpsychopharmaceuticalsandhealthinsurance\}--> of the Instructor's manual.  \
\
Many of the primary sources from this period---especially those from the members of the Spitzer task force---recall a time of great confusion. Spitzer is often characterized as acting almost singlehandedly, ignoring the hard work that others put into the classifications they proposed. If students feel confused and overwhelmed with all of the proposals being brought forward and the changes being made, that is partially intentional. \
\
While the removal of homosexuality from the DSM was the correct decision, both morally and scientifically, that does not mean that the dissenters who point out the political bullying that went into passing the resolutions do not have a point. Everything was up for grabs, and legitimacy had to be established by extra-scientific methods.  Spitzer (the real Spitzer) use the power of Robert's rules and the unlimited mandate of his task force. \
\
We want the students to use things more sophisticated, like evidence and reason.  But it is probably enough if they come away from the game with the sense that this period in the history of psychology and psychiatry was an all out scramble for legitimacy. Having a sense of confusion and chaos is a may be a part of that experience.\
}