{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 #### Writing\
\
##### For research reports: \
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
<!-- \\begin\{longtable\}[!t]\{ | P\{2cm\} | P\{3.5cm\} | P\{3.5cm\} | P\{3.5cm\} |\}\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 \\hline\
\\
\f1\b\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 tahead
\f0\b0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\{Standards\} & \\
\f1\b\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 tahead
\f0\b0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\{
\f1\fs22 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Exemplary
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\} & \\tahead\{Satisfactory\} & \\tahead\{Unacceptable\} \\\\ \\hline\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
Presentation of Evidence. (See \\fullref\{table: learninggoals\} 3)&\
The student identifies any possible confounding variables that are controlled in the experiment, and can explain *how* they are controlled. The student identifies the relationship identified between the independent and dependent variable, and is able to explain the statistical test proficiently. & The student correctly identifies the hypothesis being tested, the experimental design and the independent variable and dependent variable.\
&The student misidentifies the hypothesis, the variables and / or the experimental design. \\\\ \\hline\
Interpretation of results.  (See \\fullref\{table: learninggoals\} 3)&\
The student is able to relate this result to other results presented in class---is this finding consistent with other data presented so far?&\
The student correctly interprets the results: was the hypothesis confirmed? Disconfirmed? Etc.&\
The student is unable to connect the results of the study to the hypothesis being tested, or any overarching theoretical positions being explored. \\\\ \\hline\
Application to theoretical positions in game play. (See \\fullref\{table: learninggoals\} 6) &\
The student is clearly connects the experiment directly to the major theoretical frameworks in game play, demonstrating understanding of more than one position.&\
The student makes a connection, but it isn\'92t clear or it isn\'92t direct.&\
The student makes no connection \\\\ \\hline\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\\caption\{Sample rubric for research reports\}\
\\label\{table: writingrubric\}\
\\end\{longtable\} -->\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
##### For writing Tasks\
\
For other writing tasks, the objectives are a bit more abstract:\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
<!-- \\begin\{longtable\}[!t]\{ | P\{2cm\} | P\{3.5cm\} | P\{3.5cm\} | P\{3.5cm\} |\}\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 \\hline\
\\
\f1\b\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 tahead
\f0\b0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\{Standards\} & \\
\f1\b\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 tahead
\f0\b0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\{
\f1\fs22 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Exemplary
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\} & \\tahead\{Satisfactory\} & \\tahead\{Unacceptable\} \\\\ \\hline\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
Legitimacy&Student is able to identify where the legitimacy of evidence may be called into question by evidence.  (See \\fullref\{table: learninggoals\} 2) \\\\ \\hline\
\
Context&Where appropriate, student is able to contextualize views under discussion into their historical context (See \\fullref\{table: learninggoals\} 1 and 4). \\\\ \\hline\
\
Primary sources&Student uses historically appropriate primary sources (See \\fullref\{table: learninggoals\} 5) \\\\ \\hline\
\
Implications&Student is able to distinguish between the major theoretical positions represented in the game, and interpret evidence as bearing on those positions in some way. (\\fullref\{table: learninggoals\} 6)\\\\ \\hline\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\\caption\{Sample rubric for writing papers\}\
\\label\{table: speakingrubric\}\
\\end\{longtable\}\
-->\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
Based on [#Clabough:uw] and [#Dawn:wh]}