{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;\f2\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c50196;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid202\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid203\'02\'02.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2160\lin2160 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid204\'02\'03.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2880\lin2880 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid402\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid403\'02\'02.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2160\lin2160 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid404\'02\'03.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2880\lin2880 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid405\'02\'04.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li3600\lin3600 }{\listname ;}\listid5}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\li1418\fi-360
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs24 \cf0 #### 1971\
\
\
<!--\\begin\{longtable\}
\f1\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
[!t]\{ | p\{2cm\} | p\{7cm\} | p\{7cm\} | \} \\hline\
\\
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 tahead\{Item\} & \\tahead\{First session\} & \\tahead\{Second session\} \\\\ \\hline \\hline
\f0 \
\
Presidential Address&\\multicolumn\{2\}\{| P\{14cm\} | \}\{Miller \'93Psychology as a means of promoting human welfare\'94\} \\\\ \\hline\
\
Symposia&\'93Psychiatry: Friend or Foe to Homosexuals: A Dialogue,\'94 Fryer, Hooker, Kameny / Gittings&Worries about psychiatry, Szasz \'93The Myth of Mental Illness\'94, Marmor \'93Limits of Free Association\'94\\\\ \\hline\
\
Proposals for the Board&
\f2 Removal of homosexuality (Marmor '71)\\newline\
\pard\pardeftab720\li1418\fi-360
\ls2\ilvl0
\f0 \cf0 Create taskforce to study the 
\f2 history of treatment of homosexuality (proposed by Marmor, 1971)& Proposal from C. Socarides to create task force to sexual deviation (Really 1970 to NY branch, reported in 1972, when it was rejected).\\newline\
\pard\pardeftab720\li294\fi-247\ri-1329
\cf0 Proposal from J. Spiegel and R. Green to create task force of historical study and literature review of homosexuality in psychology and psychiatry. \\\\ \\hline\
Proposals for Research Committee&
\f0 \\multicolumn\{2\}\{| P\{14cm\} | \}\{
\f2 \'93Adjustment of Homosexual and Heterosexual Women\'94  \\textbf\{
\b (proposed by Barbara Gittings, if in game, if not, gamemaster)\}\

\b0 \\fullref\{adjustmentofhomosexualandheterosexualwomen\}
\f0 \\newline\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120

\f2 \cf0 \'93Emotional responses in a human child\'94 \\textbf\{
\b (proposed by gamemaster)\}
\f0\b0  
\f2 See \\fullref\{emotionalresponsesinahumanchild\}). The original paper is available on psych classics:  \cf2 \ul \ulc0 http://psychclassics.yorku.ca/Watson/emotion.htm \}
\f0 \cf0 \ulnone \\\\ \\hline\
Research Reports&\\multicolumn\{2\}\{| P\{14cm\} | \}\{
\f2 Miller, presenting Shepard, R. N., and Metzler, J. (1971). Mental rotation of three-dimensional objects. Science, 171, 701-703.\} \\\\ \\hline\
\pard\pardeftab720\li294\fi-247\ri-1329
\cf0 \\caption\{Major events of 1971\}\
\\end\{longtable\}-->\
\
##### Notes:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120
\cf0 Of course, the Little Albert experiment and Rosehan cannot be completed by actual students. If the research committee approves those experiments, the instructor should charge a student with presenting the original papers during the follow years' conference.\
\
Students may recognize this experiment, although I don't use the name 'little albert' in the description. They will also probably find the experiment unethical.  Many people do.  My version of the proposed experiment contains no plan for deconditioning Albert. See the 'Actual History' section below for a discussion of the history of this famous experiment.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li864\fi-864\sb240\sa120
\ls3\ilvl3
\f3\i\b\fs23 \cf0 ##### Research committee proposals\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120

\f2\i0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Unless otherwise noted, these should be brought to the research committee for discussion **
\i by the gamemaster
\i0 .**  If Milgram and Zimbardo are not in the game, those will need to be brought as well. The actual papers should be made available to the students who will be presenting the data, if the activities are not actually performed.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\sa120
\ls4\ilvl0
\f0 \cf0 * 
\f2 Shepard & Metzler's 'mental rotation of three-dimensional objects' task was approved \'93in 1970\'94, so the task should be presented to the students, and Miller prepped on presenting the data (See <!--\\fullref\{mentalrotationofthreedimensionalobjects\}-->. )You will need to register for an account here: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://opl.apa.org/Experiments/About/AboutMentalRotation.aspx"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc0 http://opl.apa.org/Experiments/About/AboutMentalRotation.aspx}} to use the APA\'92s version.\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\sa120
\ls4\ilvl0
\b \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li1008\fi-1008\sb240\sa120
\ls5\ilvl4
\b0 \cf0 **
\f3\b\fs23 Papers to be distributed for next week:**
\f2\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120
\cf0 \
1971: Shepard, R. N., & Metzler, J. (1971). Mental rotation of three-dimensional objects. Science, 171, 701-703.\
\
\
<!--\\newpage-->}