{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
Generally speaking, our students come to psychology and psychiatry through textbooks. And as a result, they are primed to believe, unreflectively, that contemporary narrative of these disciplines is settled fact. Furthermore, these students know nothing of the rise and regularization of health insurance companies and billing procedures following the inception of Medicare and Medicaid in 1965. For them, managed care, billable hours and check-box diagnoses have always been a part of their medical experience. It was not in 1970. \
\
Since the 1970s, the psychiatrists and clinical psychologists have been under extraordinary pressure to create a system of diagnosis that will allow them to be compensated for their work under this system. Spitzer's shift from etiological psychiatry to descriptive psychiatry was a major step in that struggle. \
\
It is difficult to get them to feel the pressure to legitimize psychiatry and psychology that drove much of the work in this era. But one can make progress by explicitly emphasizing the crisis of legitimacy before beginning the game.\
\
Many of the primary sources from this period---especially those from the members of the Spitzer task force---recall a time of great confusion. Spitzer is often characterized as acting almost singlehandedly, ignoring the hard work that others put into the classifications they proposed. If students feel confused and overwhelmed with all of the proposals being brought forward and the changes being made, that is partially intentional. \
\
While I believe that the removal of homosexuality was the correct decision, both morally and scientifically, that does not mean that the dissenters who point out the political bullying that went into passing the resolutions do not have a point. I want the students to come away with the sense that this period in the history of psychology and psychiatry was an all out scramble for legitimacy. Creating a sense of confusion and chaos is a necessary part of that environment.\
}