{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 Psychoanalysts\

\b0\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\sa120

\f1\fs24 \cf0 ##### For Further reading:
\f2 \

\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ###### Primary Sources:\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f2\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li283

\f1 \cf0 Freud. S. (1917 / 1989)
\i  Introductory Lectures on Psychoanalysis
\i0 , Strachey, J (trans) Liveright
\f2 \

\f1 \
Freud, S. (1912 / 1994). The Dynamics of Transference.\ul \ulc0  Essential Papers on Transference Analysis\ulnone . G. P. Bauer. Upper Saddle River, NJ, Jason Aronson, Inc.
\f2 \

\f1 \
Jung, C. G. and A. Storr (1983).\ul  The essential Jung\ulnone . Princeton, N.J., Princeton University Press.
\f2 \

\f1 \
Jung, C. G., H. E. Read, et al. (1953).\ul  The collected works of C. G. Jung\ulnone . New York, Pantheon Books, v. 4
\f2 \

\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120

\b \cf0 ###### Secondary Sources:
\f2\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li283

\f1 \cf0 \
Arieti, S. (1974).\ul  American handbook of psychiatry\ulnone . New York,, Basic Books.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li283

\b\fs32 \cf0 Behaviorists
\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120
\cf0 ##### Further Reading:
\f2 \

\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120

\b \cf0 ###### Primary Sources:
\f2\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120

\f1 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li283
\cf0 Skinner, B. F. (1953).\ul  Science and human behavior\ulnone . New York,, Macmillan.
\f2 \

\f1 \
Watson, John B. (1913) \'93Psychology as the Behaviorist Views it.\'94
\i  Psychological Review
\i0 , 20, 158-177. Also available at: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://psychclassics.asu.edu/Watson/views.htm"}}{\fldrslt http://psychclassics.asu.edu/Watson/views.htm}}
\f2 \

\f1 \
Watson, J. B. (1929). "Behaviorism -- The Modern Note in Psychology."
\f2 \

\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120

\b \cf0 ###### Secondary Sources:
\f2\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120

\f1 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li283
\cf0 Hornstein, G. A. (2002). The Return of the Repressed: Psychology's Problematic Relations with Psychoanalysis, 1909-1960.\ul  Evolving Perspectives on the History of Psychology\ulnone . W. E. Pickren and D. A. Dewsbury. Washington, DC, The American Psychological Association.
\f2 \

\f1 \
Wolpe, R. (1958)
\i  Psychotherapy by Reciprocal Inhibition
\i0 , Stanford University Press, Stanford.
\f2 \

\f1 \
Wozniak, Robert H. (1997) \'93Behaviorism: The Early Years\'94 Available at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.brynmawr.edu/Acads/Psych/rwozniak/behaviorism.html"}}{\fldrslt http://www.brynmawr.edu/Acads/Psych/rwozniak/behaviorism.html}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\li283

\b\fs32 \cf0 \
Cognitivists
\b0\fs24 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120
\cf0 ##### Further Reading
\f2 \

\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120

\b \cf0 ###### Primary Sources:
\f2\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120

\f1 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li283
\cf0 Miller, G. A. (1956). "The magical number seven, plus or minus two: Some limits on our capacity for processing information."\ul  Psychological Review
\b \ulnone  63
\b0 : 81-97.
\f2 \

\f1 \
Miller, G. A. (1962).\ul  Psychology, the science of mental life\ulnone . New York,, Harper & Row.
\f2 \

\f1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120

\b \cf0 ###### Secondary Sources:
\f2\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120

\f1 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li283
\cf0 Bechtel, W., A. Abrahamsen, et al. (1998). The Life of Cognitive Science.\ul  A Companion to Cognitive Science\ulnone . W. Bechtel and G. Graham. Malden, Mass, Blackwell.
\f2 \

\f1 \
Baars, B. J. (1986).\ul  The Cognitive Revolution in Psychology\ulnone . New York, The Guildford Press.
\f2 \

\f1 \
Leahey, T. H. (2002). The Mythical Revolutions of American Psychology.\ul  Evolving Perspectives on the History of Psychology\ulnone . W. E. Pickren and D. A. Dewsbury. Washington, DC, American Psychological Association.
\f2 \

\f1 \
Stillings, N.A., Feinstein, M.H., Garfield, J. L., Rissland, E.L, Rosenbaum, D.A., Weisler, S.E., Baker-Ward, L.
\i  Cognitive Science: An Introduction
\i0 , Cambridge: MIT Press
\f2 \
}