{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green26\blue249;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue10;
\red51\green51\blue51;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c10196\c97647;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c3922;
\csgenericrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid3\'02\'02.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2160\lin2160 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid4\'02\'03.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2880\lin2880 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\li864\fi-864\sb240\sa120
\ls1\ilvl3
\f0\fs24 \cf0 ##### 
\f1\i\b\fs23 Overview of assignments, by character\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\ls2\ilvl0
\f2\i0\b0\fs28 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
<!-- \\begin\{longtable\}[!t]\{ | p\{3cm\} |  p\{12cm\} |  \}\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab709\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 \\hline
\f0\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\b \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li47\ri-1329\qc
\cf0 Paper&\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf0 Proposals \\\\ \\hline\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 G Albee & Albee, G. W. (1970) \'93The uncertain future of clinical psychology\'94
\i  American Psychologist
\i0  1071-1080\\\\ \\hline\
A. Anastasi&Anastasi, A. (1972) \'93The cultivation of diversity\'94
\i  American Psychologist
\i0  27(12), 1091-1099 \\newline\
Anastasi. (1967). \'93Psychology, psychologists, and psychological testing.\'94
\i  American Psychologist
\i0  22 (4), p. 297-306 \\\\ \\hline\
\
A. Bandura&\
\pard\pardeftab709\li760\fi-760\ri760\sa320
\cf0 Bandura, A. (1965). {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.des.emory.edu/mfp/Bandura1965AESP.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Vicarious processes: A case of no-trial learning}}. In L. Berkowitz (Ed.),
\i  Advances in experimental social psychology
\i0  (Vol. 2, pp. 1-55). New York: Academic Press.\\newline\
Bandura, A. (1971). {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.des.emory.edu/mfp/Bandura1971.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Vicarious and self-reinforcement processes}}. In R. Glaser (Ed.),
\i  The nature of reinforcement
\i0  (pp. 228-278). New York: Academic Press. [Classic]\\newline\
\pard\pardeftab709
\cf0 Bandura, A. (1974). {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.des.emory.edu/mfp/Bandura1974AP.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Behavior theory and the models of man}}.
\i  American Psychologist, 29
\i0 , 859-869. \\\\ \\hline\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
I. Bieber&Bieber, I. (1962). Homosexuality: A Psychoanalytic Study: By Irving Bieber, et. al. New York: Basic Books, New York \\\\ \\hline\
\
\
N. Chomsky& Chomsky, N. (1959). "Review of Skinner's Verbal Behaviour" Language 35: 26-58. Electronic copy of \'91review\'92 with preface: \\url\{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://cogprints.org/1148/0/chomsky.htm"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 http://cogprints.org/1148/0/chomsky.htm}}\cf3 \ul \ulc3 \}\
\pard\pardeftab720\li283\sa120
\cf0 \ulnone \\newline\
Chomsky, N. (1967). "Recent Contributions to the Theory of Innate Ideas"
\i  Synthese
\i0  17: 2-11.\
\\newline\
Chomsky, N. (1967). \'93The Responsibility of Intellectuals\'94
\i  The New York Review of Books
\i0 , Feb 23, 1967. Available at \\url\{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.chomsky.info/articles/19670223.htm"}}{\fldrslt http://www.chomsky.info/articles/19670223.htm}}\}\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \\\\ \\hline\
\
K. Clark&\
\pard\pardeftab709
\cf0 Phillips, L. \'93Recontextualizing Kenneth B. Clark: An Afrocentric Perspective on the Paradoxical Legacy of a Model Psychologist-Activist\'94 from
\i  Evolving Perspectives on the History of Psychology
\i0 , Pinkren, W and Dewsbury, D.\
\\newline\
Clark, K. (1971) \'93The pathos of power: A psychological perspective\'94
\i  American Psychologist
\i0  26(12) 1047-1057 \\\\ \\hline\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
D. Fordney Settlage&Fordney Settlage, DS, Baroff S, Cooper D 1973. Sexual experience of younger teenage girls seeking contraceptive assistance for the first time. Family Planning Perspectives, Vol. 5, No. 4 Autumn, 1973, p 223-226 (available on Jstor)\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab709\li720\fi-360\sa120
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 \\newline\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab709\li720\fi-360\sa120
\ls4\ilvl0\cf0 Fordney-Settlage DS 1975. Heterosexual dysfunction: Evaluation of treatment procedures. Archives of Sexual Behavior, Volume 4, Number 4 / July, 1975 (DOI: 10.1007/BF01541722)\\\\ \\hline\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
J. Fryer&Scasta, D. (2002) \'93John E. Fryer, MD, and the Dr. H. Anonymous Episode\'94
\i  Journal of Gay and Lesbian Psychotherapy
\i0  6(4) 73-84 \\\\ \\hline\
\
P. Gebhard&Cornbach, L. J. (1956) \'93The Two Disciplines of Scientific Psychology\'94
\i  American Psychologist
\i0 , 12: 671-684. Available at \\url\{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://psychclassics.yorku.ca/Cronbach/Disciplines/"}}{\fldrslt http://psychclassics.yorku.ca/Cronbach/Disciplines/}}\}\\\\ \\hline\
\
R. Gold&Gold, R. \'93Three Stories of Gay Liberation\'94 \\url\{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.queerstories.org/custom.html"}}{\fldrslt http://www.queerstories.org/custom.html}}\}\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\sa120
\cf0 Moor, Paul (2001) The view from Irving Bieber's couch: \'93Heads I win, tails you lose.\'94 J. Gay and Lesbian Psychotherapy, 5(3/4):25-36. (also reprinted
\i  Sexual Conversion Therapy
\i0  (Ariel Shidlo, Michael Schroeder (PsyD.), Michael Schroeder, Jack Drescher)\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \\\\ \\hline\
\
R. Green&Green, R. \\& Money, J. (1961) \'93Effeminacy in prepubertal boys; Summary of eleven cases and recommendations for case management.\'94
\i  Pediatrics
\i0  27(2), p. 286-291\
\pard\pardeftab709\li709\sa120
\cf0 \\newline\
Green, R. (1972) \'93Homosexuality as a Mental Illness\'94
\i  International Journal of Psychiatry
\i0  10:77-98\
\\newline\
Fox, K. \'93Vancouver \'96 The Richard Green Interview\'94 \\url\{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://web.archive.org/web/20030609051314/http://www.rfts.a.se/rich_greene.html"}}{\fldrslt http://web.archive.org/web/20030609051314/http://www.rfts.a.se/rich_greene.html}}\}, accessed 2/17/2011 
\i \\\\ \\hline
\i0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
H. Harlow&Harlow, H. (1958) \'93The nature of love\'94
\i  American Psychologist
\i0  13(12) 673-685 On Psych Classics: \\url\{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://psychclassics.yorku..ca/Harlow/love.htm"}}{\fldrslt http://psychclassics.yorku..ca/Harlow/love.htm}}\}.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120
\cf0 \\newline\
Harlow, Harry F. (1975). "Lust, latency and love: Simian secrets of successful sex."
\i  Journal of Sex
\i0  
\i Research
\i0  11(2): 79-90. available on {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://jstor.org"}}{\fldrslt jstor.org}}
\i \\\\ \\hline
\i0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
E. Hooke
\f3\fs22 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
r
\f0\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 &Hooker, E. (1956). A preliminary analysis of group behavior of homosexuals. Journal of Psychology, 42, 217-225.\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\sa120
\cf0 \\newline\
Hooker, E. (1957). The adjustment of the male overt homosexual. Journal of Projective Techniques, 21, 18-31.\
\\newline\
Hooker, E. (1958). Male homosexuality in the Rorschach. Journal of Projective Techniques, 23, 278-281.\
\\newline\
Hooker, E. (1961). Homosexuality: Summary of studies. In E. M. Duvall \\& S. M. Duvall (Eds.), Sex ways in fact and faith. New York: Association Press.\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0  \\\\ \\hline\
\
R. Hopcke&Hopcke, R. (1988) \'93Jung and Homosexuality: A Clearer Vision\'94
\i  Journal of Analytical Psychology
\i0  33, p. 65-80 \\\\ \\hline\
\
B. Gittings&Story of Barbara Gittings: \\url\{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.rainbowhistory.org/gittings.htm"}}{\fldrslt http://www.rainbowhistory.org/gittings.htm}}\}\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283
\cf0 \\newline\
Siegelman, M. (1972). \'93Adjustment of Homosexual and Heterosexual Women.\'94
\i  British Journal of Psychiatry
\i0  120, 477-81.\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \\\\ \\hline\
\
F. Kameny&Read the legal and personal documents of Frank Kameny at \\url\{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.kamenypapers.org/index.htm"}}{\fldrslt http://www.kamenypapers.org/index.htm}}\}\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283
\cf0 \\newline\
Read the story of the 1971 APA in DC: \\url\{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.rainbowhistory.org/html/apazap.htm"}}{\fldrslt http://www.rainbowhistory.org/html/apazap.htm}}\} \\\\ \\hline\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
H. Lief&Leif, H. (1964) \'93The Psychological Basis of Medical Practice\'94
\i  Postgrad Med J
\i0  40:355 doi:10.1136/pgmj.40.464.355-a\
\
 \\\\ \\hline\
\
J. Marmor&Marmor, J. (1970) \'93The Limits of Free Association\'94 
\i Arch. Gen. Psychiat
\i0 . 22, p. 160-165\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\sa120
\cf0 \\newline\
Marmor, J. (Ed.) (1965).
\i  Sexual inversion: The multiple roots of homosexuality
\i0  (pp. 83107). New York: Basic Books. \\\\
\i  \\hline
\i0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
D. Marr&Marr, D. (1982).
\i  \\emph\{Vision: A Computational Investigation into the Human Representation and Processing of Visual Information\}
\i0  MIT Press (esp. Ch 1)\
\pard\pardeftab720

\i \cf0 \\\\ \\hline
\i0 \
\
S. Milgram& Milgram, S. (1963) \'93Behavioral study of obedience.\'94
\i  Journal of Abnormal and Social Psychology
\i0 , 67, 371\'96378. Available at \\url\{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.wadsworth.com/psychology_d/templates/student_resources/0155060678_rathus/ps/ps01.html"}}{\fldrslt http://www.wadsworth.com/psychology_d/templates/student_resources/0155060678_rathus/ps/ps01.html}}\} with permission from Alexandra Milgram.\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\sa120
\cf0 \\newline\
Milgram, S. (1967). "\cf4 The Small World Problem\cf0 "
\i \cf4  Psychology Today\cf0 ,
\i0  2 p. 60 \'96 67\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \\\\ \\hline\
\
G. Miller&Miller, G. A. (1956). \'93The magical number seven, plus or minus two: Some limits on our capacity for processing information.\'94
\i  Psychological Review, 63
\i0 , 81-97.\
\\newline\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120
\cf0 Miller, G. A. (1969). Psychology as a means of promoting human welfare.
\i  American Psychologist, 24
\i0 (12), 1063-1075.\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f3\fs22 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 
\f0\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \\\\ \\hline\
\
J. Piaget&\cf5 Piatelli-Palmarini, M. (Ed.) (1980).
\i  \\emph\{Language and Learning: The Debate between Jean Piaget and Noam Chomsky\}
\i0 , London: Routledge \\& Kegan Paul . Reviewed at: \\url\{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayAbstract?fromPage=online&aid=5843312"}}{\fldrslt http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayAbstract?fromPage=online&aid=5843312}}\}\cf0 \
\\\\ \\hline\
L. Tyler
\i &
\i0 Tyler, L.E. (1969).
\i  The Work of the Counselor
\i0 , Prentice Hall\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\sa120
\cf0 \\newline\
Tyler, L. E. (1973) \'93Design for a hopeful psychology\'94
\i  American Psychologist
\i0 , 28(12) 1021-1029\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \\\\ \\hline\
\
\
C. Socarides&Socarides, C.W. (1963). \'93Homosexuality: A Psychoanalytic Study: By Irving Bieber, et. al. New York: Basic Books Inc., 1962 385 pp.\'94 Psychoanalytic Quarterly, 32: 111-114\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\sa120
\cf0 \\newline\
Socarides, C. W. (1968). \\emph\{
\i The Overt Homosexual\}
\i0 . Jason Aronson, Inc.\
\\newline\
Socarides, C.W. (1970). \'93Homosexuality and Medicine\'94 Journal of the American Medical Association 212 (7): 1199\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0  \\\\ \\hline\
\
J. Spiegel
\f3\fs22 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \\&
\f0\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Grinker, R. & Spiegel, J. P. (1945)
\i  \\emph\{Men Under Stress\}
\i0  American Psychological Association. Was once available print-on-demand, but is not currently: \\url\{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.apa.org/pubs/books/4320127.aspx"}}{\fldrslt www.apa.org/pubs/books/4320127.aspx}}\}\
\\\\ \\hline\
\
R. Spitzer&Spitzer, R. L. and Endicott, J. \'93Medical and Mental Disorder: Proposed Definition and Criteria\'94 in
\i  Critical Issues in Psychiatric Diagnosis
\i0 , Spitzer and Klein, e.d. See also Klein, D. \'93A Proposed Definition of Mental Illness\'94, in the same volume.\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283
\cf0 \\newline\
Spitzer. Research diagnostic criteria (RDC). Biometrics research (1975) pp. 34 (available at \\url\{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.garfield.library.upenn.edu/classics1989/A1989U309700001.pdf"}}{\fldrslt http://www.garfield.library.upenn.edu/classics1989/A1989U309700001.pdf}}\})\
\\newline\
Spitzer, R. and Fleiss, J. (1974). \'93A Re-analysis of the Reliability of Psychiatric Diagnosis\'94
\i  Brit. J. Psychiat.
\i0  125, 341-7 \\\\ \\hline\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
T. Szasz& Popper, K. R. (1959).
\i  \\emph\{The Logic of Scientific Discovery\}
\i0 . New York: Basic Books\
\pard\pardeftab720\li283\sa120
\cf0 \\newline\
Szasz, T. (1960). \'93The Myth of Mental Illness\'94
\i  American Psychologist
\i0 , 15, p. 113-118 available at \\url\{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://psychclassics.yorku.ca/Szasz/myth.htm"}}{\fldrslt http://psychclassics.yorku.ca/Szasz/myth.htm}}\}\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \\\\ \\hline\
\
P. Zimbardo&Haney, C. Banks, C. \\& Zimbardo, P. (1973). \'93Interpersonal Dynamics in a Simulated Prison\'94
\i  International Journal of Criminology and Penology
\i0  1, p. 69-97\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\sa120
\cf0 Zimbardo, P. G. (1972).
\i  The Stanford Prison Experiment a Simulation Study of the Psychology of Imprisonment.
\i0  Philip G. Zimbardo, Inc.\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \\\\ \\hline\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab709\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f2\b0\fs28 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\\caption\{
\f0\i\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Overview of reading assignments, by character
\f2\i0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\}\
\\label\{table: readingsbycharacter\}\
\\end\{longtable\}-->
\f0\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
}