{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;\f2\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
`\\index\{Decartes, Ren\'e9 |(\}`\{=latex\}Let\'92s take a moment to contrast this with an alternative approach.  Ren\'e9 Descartes, who many consider to be the founder of modern western Philosophy, argued that the mind was wholly distinct from the body, and therefore subject to an entirely different set of laws.  This view we call \'91mind-body dualism.\'92 `\\index\{dualism, mind-body\}`\{=latex\}\
\
His most famous argument for mind-body dualism asks us to doubt all that cannot be known with certainty, and then concludes that one cannot doubt that one is doubting; hence thinking; hence one cannot doubt that one is a thinking thing.  This famous argument (called the \'93cogito\'94) is contained the First Meditation. But Descartes offers a much more interesting and influential argument in a number of other writings: the argument from language and language-use. \
\
This argument appears twice in
\f1\i  *The Discourse on Methods*
\f0\i0 , first in part 3:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li283\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 >...if there were such machines having the organs and the shape of a monkey or of some other animal that lacked reason, we would have no way of recognizing that they were not entirely of the same nature as these animals; where as, if there were any such machines that bore a resemblance to our bodies and imitated our actions as far as this is practically feasible, we would always have two very certain means of recognizing that they were not at all, for that reason, true men.  The first is that they could never use words or other signs, or put them together as we do in order to declare our thoughts to others.  For one can well conceive of a machine being so made that it utters words, and even that it utters words appropriate to the bodily actions that will cause some change in its organs... But it could not arrange its words differently so as to respond to the sense of all that will be said in its presence, as even the dullest men can do. ([Ch 3, 1637][#Descartes:1968uf])\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 And then again in part 5:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li283\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 >[in looking at the body] I found there precisely all those things that can be in us without our thinking about them, and hence, without our soul's contributing to them, that is to say, that part distinct from the body of which it has been said previously that its nature is only to think.  And these are all the same features in which one can say that animals lacking reason resemble us.  But I could not on that account find there any of those functions, which, being dependent on thought, are the only ones that belong to us as men, although I did find them all later on, once I had supposed God created a rational soul and joined it to this body in particular manner that I described. ([Ch 5, 1637][#Descartes:1968uf])\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The same point appears in his
\f1\i  *Letter to Henry More*
\f0\i0 :\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li283\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 >Nevertheless it has never been observed that any brute beast arrived at such perfection that it could use true speech, that is, that it indicated by words or signs something that can be ascribed to thought alone, and not to a natural impulse.  For speech is the only certain sign of thought concealed in the body, and all men, even the stupidest and most insane, make use of it, but not any brute.  Therefore, this can be taken to be the true differentia between man and brutes ([p. 297][#Descartes:ut])\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 In these passages, Descartes ascribes to humans alone the ability to use language and conceive of abstract ideas. He then finds that these abilities cannot be the products of material, finite reality precisely because they are potentially infinite. As experience is limited to finite reality, ideas of things that are *not* finite must be 'ascribed to thought alone.' Thus, these ideas must be innate to the mind and *not* based on experience. It  follows that that these distinctly human abilities are the products of a non-material infinite reality. In short, the argument is this:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 `\\begin\{
\f3 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
apatextboxinline
\f2 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \}\{
\f0 Descartes\'92 challenge
\f2 \}
\f0\fs20 1. 
\fs24 Humans alone use language and conceive of abstract entities (i.e. 'infinity'). \\newline 
\fs20 2. 
\fs24 No finite material mechanism could ever use language or conceive of an abstract entity.  \\newline 
\fs20 3. T
\fs24 herefore, humans cannot be a finite material mechanism. \\label\{def:descartes\}\\end\{
\f3 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
apatextboxinline
\f0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \}`\{=latex\}\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 `\\index\{Hobbes, Thomas\}`\{=latex\}Hobbes' asserted earlier that human beings could be imitated through material mechanisms, and that our minds are ruled by the law of inquiring of the consequences of an action.  This is tantamount to denying #2: that the finite brain can create abstract ideas by inquiring of the consequences of finite, concrete ideas. But insofar Hobbes has only made an assertion---a hypothesis---we need an empirical demonstration. To establish Hobbes' contention and meet Descartes' challenge scientifically, Hobbes must show a physical machine could, through experience, develop both the ability to speak rationally and conceive of abstract entities that are not clearly the product of experience (such as the concept of \'91infinity\'92).`\\index\{Decartes, Ren\'e9 |)\}`\{=latex\}\
\
`\\newthought\{It is easy to see\}`\{=latex\} how a process of 'addition and subtraction' could produce a concept of infinity. But it is hard to see how simple arithmetic could produce a machine that could \'93arrange its words differently so as to respond to the sense of all that will be said in its presence, as even the dullest men can do.\'94\
}