{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;\f2\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 #### First Revolution: Behaviorism\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs24 \cf0 `\\index[gamebook]\{Watson, John B.\}\\index[gamebook]\{Behaviorism!foundations\}`\{=latex\}John B. Watson (1878-1958) opens his 1913 manifesto \'93Psychology as the Behaviorist Views it.\'94 with the bold claim that
\f0\b  **Psychology**\

\f2\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li283\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 >\'93**is a purely objective branch of natural science.**
\f2\b0  Its theoretical goal is the prediction and control of behavior. Introspection forms no essential part of its methods, nor is the scientific value of its data dependent upon the readiness with which they lend themselves to interpretation in terms of consciousness. The behaviorist, in his efforts to get a unitary scheme of animal response, recognizes no dividing line between man and brute. The behavior of man, with all of its refinement and complexity, forms only a part of the behaviorist's total scheme of investigation.\'94 ([p. 158][#Watson:1913tq])\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 In a 1929 debate with the Harvard professor and physiological-psychologist William MacDougall (1871-1938), Watson anticipated a common criticism of behaviorism: that it cannot explain our rich interior mental life---what William James called the \'93stream of consciousness.\'94 Watson responded that if we were to take the inner mental life as the object of study, rather than observable behaviors, there would be \'93as many analyses as there are individual psychologists. There is no element of control. There is no way of experimentally attaching and solving psychological problems and standardizing methods.\'94 Thus, scientific standards require Psychologists to limit themselves to \'93things that can be observed, and formulate laws concerning only the observed things.\'94 ([#Watson:iMwU-3B8])\
\
According to Watson, \'91observable things\'92 includes only \'93what the organism says or does,\'94 which must then be described \'93in terms of \'91stimulus and response.\'92\'94  By \'91stimulus,\'92 Watson means:\
\
> any object in the general environment or any change in the physiological condition of the animal, such as the change we get when we keep an animal from sex activity, when we keep it from feeding, when we keep it from building a nest. By response we mean that system of organized activity that we see emphasized anywhere in any kind of animal, as building a skyscraper, drawing plans, having babies, writing books, and the like.\
\
Watson\'92s behaviorism explains the behavior of all organisms (not just humans) by producing laws of correlation between stimuli and responses. This was a massive extension of the field of psychology, as animals and babies were not able to give introspective reports. Following Pavlov, Watson contends that an organism initially engages is some random behavior (say, a baby squirming) in response to a stimulus: what we now call `\\index[gamebook]\{Behaviorism!classical conditioning\}`\{=latex\}\'92Classical Conditioning\'92. After repeated exposures to the unconditioned stimulus alongside the conditioned stimulus, the organism produces the condition responds to the conditioned stimulus without the unconditioned response. Thus, to explain any given behavior, one must find the conditioned stimulus that is now correlated with the conditioned response.\
\
MacDougall, among others, challenged Watson to answer Descartes` challenge: to explain \'93thinking\'94 or \'93thought\'94  in terms of stimulus and response.  Watson does not shy away from this challenge:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li283\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 > \'93The increasing dominance of language habits in the behavior of the developing child leads naturally over into the behaviorist's conception of thinking.  The behaviorist makes no mystery of thinking.  He holds that thinking is behavior, is motor organization, just like tennis playing or golf or any other form of muscular activity. But what kind of muscular activity? The muscular activity that he uses in talking. Thinking is merely talking, but talking with concealed musculature.\'94 ([p. 464][#Watson:2013ty])\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 According to Watson, a child initiates verbal behavior by talking aloud to and about his surroundings. As that behavior is negatively reinforced, it changes to mumbling to oneself, and ultimately to keeping one's lips closed. It follows that thinking is not an activity of the mind/brain alone, but a kinesthetic experience of the entire organism\'97in short, a behavior.  Words are, in Watson's view \'93the conditioned substitutes for our world of objects and acts. Thinking is a device for manipulating the world of objects when those objects are not present to the senses.\'94 ([][#Watson:iMwU-3B8])`\\index[gamebook]\{Watson, John B.|)\}`\{=latex\}\
\
}