{\rtf1\ansi\deff0\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset128 Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset128 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset128 Arial;}{\f3\froman\fprq0\fcharset128 ;}{\f4\fnil\fprq2\fcharset128 Arial Unicode MS;}{\f5\fnil\fprq2\fcharset128 MS Mincho;}{\f6\fnil\fprq2\fcharset128 Tahoma;}{\f7\fnil\fprq0\fcharset128 Tahoma;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af3\langfe1033\hich\f3\fs24\lang1033\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\snext1 Normal;}
{\s2\sb240\sa120\keepn\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\rtlch\af6\afs28\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe1033\hich\f2\fs28\lang1033\loch\f2\fs28\lang1033\sbasedon1\snext3 Heading;}
{\s3\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af3\langfe1033\hich\f3\fs24\lang1033\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon1\snext3 Body Text;}
{\s4\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\rtlch\af7\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af3\langfe1033\hich\f3\fs24\lang1033\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon3\snext4 List;}
{\s5\sb120\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\rtlch\af7\afs24\lang1033\ai\ltrch\dbch\af3\langfe1033\hich\f3\fs24\lang1033\i\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\i\sbasedon1\snext5 caption;}
{\s6\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\rtlch\af7\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af3\langfe1033\hich\f3\fs24\lang1033\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon1\snext6 Index;}
{\s7\sb240\sa120\keepn\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\rtlch\afs28\lang1033\ai\ab\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe1033\hich\f2\fs28\lang1033\i\b\loch\f2\fs28\lang1033\i\b\sbasedon2\snext3{\*\soutlvl1} heading 2;}
{\*\cs9\cf0\rtlch\af6\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af4\langfe1033\hich\f0\fs24\lang1033\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033 Default Paragraph Font;}
{\*\cs10\cf2\ul\ulc0\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af4\langfe1033\hich\f0\fs24\lang1033\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon9 Internet link;}
}
{\info{\author Christine Mathews}{\creatim\yr2009\mo9\dy25\hr12\min55}{\author Christine Mathews}{\revtim\yr2009\mo9\dy25\hr12\min55}{\printim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}{\comment StarWriter}{\vern3100}}\deftab720
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1800\margrsxn1800\margtsxn1440\margbsxn1440\pgdscnxt0 Standard;}}
{\*\pgdscno0}\paperh15840\paperw12240\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1800\margrsxn1800\margtsxn1440\margbsxn1440\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi-576\sb240\sa120\keepn\f2\fs28\i\b\f5\fs28\i\b\fs28\i\b\aspalpha \ltrpar\s7\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi-576\sb240\sa120\keepn\rtlch\afs28\lang1033\ai\ab\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe1033\hich\f2\fs28\lang1033\i\b\loch\f2\fs28\lang1033\i\b {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f2\fs28\lang1033\i\b Obituaries and Tributes}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\ql\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af3\langfe1033\hich\f3\fs24\lang1033\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af3\langfe1033\hich\f3\fs24\lang1033\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033{\field{\*\fldinst ADDIN EN.CITE.DATA}{\fldrslt }}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch {\field{\*\fldinst ADDIN EN.CITE}{\fldrslt (Sears 1982; Phillips 2002; Shavelson and Gleser 2002; Pray 2003; Kessler 2007)}}}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha{\field{\*\fldinst ADDIN EN.REFLIST}{\fldrslt Kessler, M. (2007). "Obituary: George W. Albee (1921-2006)." American Psychologist 62(4): 317-318.\line \tab Presents an obituary for George W. Albee, a past President of the American Psychological Association (APA) and lifelong advocate of the importance of social change to deal effectively with mental disorders. His impact on psychology is reflected in the many awards he received in his lifetime, which included the APA Distinguished Professional Contribution Award in 1975, the American Psychological Foundation Gold Medal Award for Life Achievement in Psychology in the Public Interest in 1993, and the Lifetime Achievement Award in Applied Preventive Psychology in 1997. With his passing, psychology lost one of the staunchest advocates of prevention as the most important approach to dealing with psychological ills. He was also a lifelong advocate for the disenfranchised. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2008 APA, all rights reserve\line \line Phillips, L. (2002). Recontextualizing Kenneth B. Clark: An Afrocentric Perspective on the Paradoxical Legacy of a Model Psychologist-Activist. Evolving Perspectives on the History of Psychology. W. E. Pickren and D. A. Dewsbury. Washington, DC, American Psychriatric Association.\line \tab \line Pray, R. (2003). John E. Fryer, 65, psychiatrist. The Philadelphia Inquirer. Philadelphia: B09.\line \tab \line Sears, R. R. (1982). "Obituary: Harry Frederick Harlow (1905-1981)." American Psychologist 37(11): 1280-1281.\line \tab Obituary for Harry Frederick Harlow (1905-1981). Harlow's research career, spanning a full half century, was notable for its single-minded adherence to the search for understanding of a single species, for the imaginative methods he devised for the study of both cognition and motivation, and for the crucially important findings these methods provided. His careful empirical development of the facts of behavioral development led to prepositional generalizations that have contributed notably to an understanding of human as well as monkey motivational development. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2008 APA, all rights reserve\line \line Shavelson, R. J. and G. Gleser (2002). "Lee J. Cronbach (1916-2001): Obituary." American Psychologist 57(5): 360-361.\line \tab Reports the death of Lee J. Cronbach (1916-2001). The author gives a summery of his life and contributions to psychology. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2008 APA, all rights reserve\line \line \line }}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch }
\par }