{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf460
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab709
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\i\b\fs24 \cf0 Behaviorist Overview\
\pard\pardeftab709

\f1\i0\b0 \cf0 \
The central issue in this game\'97whether it be voiced in the selection of experiments to be run via the grants committee or in the classification of mental illness in the nomenclature committee\'97is the  nature of the scientific investigation of the human mind.  Behaviorists, following Skinner, hold that scientific method must restrict itself to describing correlations between initial conditions (stimuli) and resultant behaviors (responses). It believes that to be scientific, a research must seek law-like generalizations that express relationships between observable, measurable variables.\
\
It follows, then, that behaviorists reject the hypothetical-deductive method of science advanced by thinkers like John Stuart Mill and John Dewey (see the history of Behaviorism in the game book) as misleading and inaccurate characterizations of the way that scientific reasoning proceeds.  While it does not deny the validity of careful case studies in the collection of data, it denies the generalizability of those findings without experimental results.\
\
As a result, behaviorists view psychoanalysis as \'93voodooism\'94 (Watson, 1928, p. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://B7951FF3-A465-4E35-BAC9-02CF882DD00C"}}{\fldrslt 94)}} and a \'93delusion\'94 (Jastrow, 1932, p. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://CF0312F1-7D43-4EB8-8E4F-AB61BBB74737"}}{\fldrslt 142).}} Skinner went so far as to systematically define the central mechanisms of psychoanalytic theory in behavioristic terms in Chapter 24 of his 1953
\i  Science and Human Behavior.
\i0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\fi-283

\fs20 \cf0 In addition to the thesis that introspection is not a reliable scientific methodology, Behaviorists have a couple of other lines of argument that are frequently used: First, they argue that mental states are causally irrelevant, as 'mental' things are meant to be non-physical, and only physical things can causally interact with physical things. Second, they argue that explanations of behavior in terms of 'inner states' are
\i  ad hoc
\i0 : the supposed 'ideas' or 'mind' is invented after the fact as an explanation of the behavior, rather than an actual cause. Behaviorists point to the fact that these mental states are almost always posited to have exactly those properties necessary to cause the explained behavior. Rarely, if ever, is a mental property invoked in making a bold and surprising prediction. Rather, they are reminiscent of the 'faculties' of phrenology: every behavior is explained perfectly by positing a hypothetical faculty for that {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://6FEAFDEF-3706-476B-94DE-1056EE0B0D59"}}{\fldrslt behavior.}}  \
\
When the game reaches the point of trying to define mental illness, you must pass a behaviorist interpretation, roughly:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs24 \cf0 	A person can be called 'mentally ill' when he or she exhibits emotional or behavioral functioning which is so impaired as to interfere substantially with his or her capacity to function in society. \
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\fi-283

\fs20 \cf0 \
}