{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf460
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab709
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf0 Philip Zimbardo, PhD\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\i0 \cf0 Your Biography\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 You were born in 1933 and grew up in the South Bronx of New York City in a poor, uneducated Sicilian immigrant family. From your experience you learned that people, not material possessions, are our most valuable resource, that diversity should be embraced because it enriches us, and that education is the key to escaping poverty. Your education began in New York Public School 52 and later included Monroe High School (with classmate Stanley Milgram), Brooklyn College (published your first research article on race relations), and Yale University for your PhD (in 1959).\
You started your teaching and research career at NYU, but moved to Stanford in 1968, and have remained there ever since.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Game Objectives\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 Propose a study to the research committee based on your infamous 1971 Prison experiment. Do
\i  not
\i0  base your proposal on
\i  any
\i0  of the stuff you find in popular culture, including that promoted and sold by Zimbardo himself.  Go back to the original paper (Haney, Banks & Zimbardo 1973) and write the proposal based on that.\
You are neutral on 
\b the issue of the definition of mental illness
\b0 .\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\b \cf0 Specific Assignments
\i \
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\i0\b0 \cf0 Write a paper, to be presented at the 1975 conference, on the ethical problems of the 1973 study \'96 you may wish to watch the movie 'Quiet Rage' in preparation.  The Research committee will likely be tasked with revising the 1968 guidelines for ethical research in wake of your 1973 report. You should have concrete suggestions for those revisions.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Must Read\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\sa120

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 Haney, C. Banks, C. & Zimbardo, P. (1973). \'93Interpersonal Dynamics in a Simulated Prison\'94
\i  International Journal of Criminology and Penology
\i0  1, p. 69-97\
Zimbardo, P. G. (1972).
\i  The Stanford Prison Experiment a Simulation Study of the Psychology of Imprisonment.
\i0  Philip G. Zimbardo, Inc.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\i\b \cf0 Secondary Sources\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\sa120
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zimbardo.com/"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\i0\b0 \cf0 http://www.zimbardo.com/}}
\f1\i0\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\sa120
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ted.com/speakers/philip_zimbardo.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 http://www.ted.com/speakers/philip_zimbardo.html}}\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\sa120
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://zimbardo.socialpsychology.org/"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 http://zimbardo.socialpsychology.org/}}\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\sa120
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://psychology.about.com/od/profilesmz/p/philip-zimbardo.htm"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 http://psychology.about.com/od/profilesmz/p/philip-zimbardo.htm}}\
\
}