{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf460
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab709
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf0 Richard Green, MD
\i0 \
Your Biography\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 Born in 1936 in Brooklyn, New York. You earned your A.B. from Syracuse University in 1957, your MD from Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine in 1961. At Johns Hopkins you studied with John Money, and continued to work with him throughout your career.\
Money and you collaborated on a series of studies of so-called 'sissy boys' when you were still ABD starting in the 1960s. This collaboration has yielded a number of studies, including your recent paper \'93Mythological, historical, and cross-cultural aspects of transsexualism\'94 which is included in your co-edited book
\i  Transsexualism and Sex Reassignment
\i0 . Transsexualism has become your life-long research topic.\
You are dissatisfied today with the state of the science of sexuality, in part because it is too dominated by theoretical positions and not by empirical research. Moreover, research into sexuality is conducted by individuals in many different disciplines, and there is no single organization or journal that can unify all the researchers from all these disciplines.\
Your goal is to create an organization that can promote and defend the empirical, scientific study of sexuality in the U.S. and abroad.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Game Objectives\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 You have a long-standing friendship with both Harold Lief and Diane Fordney-Settlage, support here when and where appropriate.\
You should argued forcefully in favor of the removal of 'homosexuality' from the DSM. You argue that the grounds for deciding the issue should be the "historical and cross-cultural groundings in homosexual expression, associated psychiatric features accompanying a homosexual orientation, the emotional consequences to the homosexual of societal condemnation, and behaviors of other species."\
You should oppose, however,  efforts of the Board of Directors to put it to a public vote, saying that such "a shotgun marriage between science and democracy" was "ludicrous." A true scientific principle, that is supported by data, need not have public support to be the right thing to do.\
After the removal of homosexuality passes (however it passes), get on the Spitzer Taskforce to rewrite the DSM. You should adamantly oppose any efforts to reintroduce homosexuality\'97in any form\'97to the nomenclature. If Spitzer tries to introduce something like 'homodysphilia' or 'ego-dystonic homosexuality', resign from the task force in a grand, public way (like storming out of class).\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\b \cf0 When, and if, the game reaches a point of trying to define mental illness
\b0 , you must pass a psychoanalytic interpretation of mental disorder / illness.\
\
Propose a new journal titled
\i  Archives of Sexual Behavior
\i0  to the Board in 1971. If they do not agree, create it when you create the the International Academy of Sex Research (IASR) in 1975.\

\b Fission:
\b0 \
Found (with E. Hooker) the International Academy of Sex Research, and take the
\i  Archives of Sexual Behavior
\i0  with you.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\i\b \cf0 Specific Assignments\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\i0\b0 \cf0 Working with J. Speigel, petition the Board of Directors in 1971 to create a task force to conduct a historical survey and literature review on the Psychiatric and Psychological treatment of homosexuality. The task force should be be balanced between psychologists and psychiatrists, so you need a psychiatrist to support the effort \'96 E. Hooker, G. Albee and John P. Spiegel are a good choices. Prepared to turn in a report by 1972.\
\pard\pardeftab709
\cf0 Your report (due in 1972) should be titled \'93Homosexuality as Mental {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://AB1BAA57-5E3F-4FD7-B51D-DCF2D2A0F350"}}{\fldrslt Illness,\'94}} and it should summarize the issues at stake in forthcoming debate, as well as cover the history of the classification of homosexuality by the psychological sciences. J. Speigel and you should co-author the report. You should invite responses to your paper from Socarides & Beiber and Judd Marmor.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\b \cf0 Must Read
\f0\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab709\li709\sa120

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 Green, R. & Money, J. (1961) \'93Effeminacy in prepubertal boys; Summary of eleven cases and recommendations for case management.\'94
\i  Pediatrics
\i0   27(2), p. 286-291\
Green R. & Money J (1969).
\i  Transsexualism and Sex Reassignment
\i0 . The Johns Hopkins University Press (November 1, 1969) ISBN 0-8018-1038-8.\
Green, R. (1972) \'93Homosexuality as a Mental Illness\'94
\i  International Journal of Psychiatry
\i0  10:77-98\
Fox, K. \'93Vancouver \'96 The Richard Green Interview\'94 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://web.archive.org/web/20030609051314/http://www.rfts.a.se/rich_greene.html"}}{\fldrslt http://web.archive.org/web/20030609051314/http://www.rfts.a.se/rich_greene.html}}, accessed 2/17/2011\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\i\b \cf0 Secondary Sources
\f0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\li709\sa120

\f1\i0\b0 \cf0 Reiss, I. (2006).
\i  An insider's view of sexual science since Kinsey
\i0  Rowman & Littlefield, p. 49\
Transsexual Road Map (2010) \'93Richard Green on gender variance,\'94 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.tsroadmap.com/info/richard-green.html"}}{\fldrslt http://www.tsroadmap.com/info/richard-green.html}} accessed 2/17/2011\
}