{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 ### Game synopsis\
\
The narrative of the game begins, but does not end with, the demedicalization of homosexuality. This game is not intended to be a political game wherein the players are centrally interested in the collection and use of power.  Rather, this game is meant to be about evidence, and the interpretation of evidence. Bieber claims, for example, to have about 30% success rate in his \'91treatment\'92 of homosexuality. Is this an adequate? Especially as the pain it causes--as experience first-hand by Ron Gold.\
\
More importantly, this game is not centrally *about* homosexuality.  That issue is completed largely in the first session.  This game is about whether or not science can legitimately posit underlying mechanisms to explain behavior or is restricted to merely cataloging and describing behavior. Spitzer\'92s proposed revisions to the DSM largely banished psychoanalytic taxonomies (and their assumed underlying psychodynamic mechanisms) from the official language of psychiatry. At the same time, Chomsky and Miller are reintroducing hypothetical mechanisms to Psychology, which has resisted them for half a century.\
\
The three main factions have distinctly different views on this question: \
\
* The psychoanalysts believe that one cannot categorize human behavior without understanding the underlying mechanisms. \
\
* The behaviorists believe that science requires that the limit themselves only to describing behavior.  \
\
* The cognitivists offer a third way, a kind of hybrid between the two, where mechanisms are required for adequate explanation of behavior, but they are ontologically limited to those that can be realized in the physical substrate of the human mind.\
\
After the initial storm over homosexuality, the central question of the game is scientific legitimacy of psychoanalysis. This is a complicated issue, and will make allies of those initially divided over homosexuality---Marmor and Speigel will need to work with Socardes / Bieber to protect psychoanalysis from Spitzer and allies.\
\
Spitzer is a bit of a wild card.  In reality, Spitzer was never enthralled with psychoanalysis. Once he understood the negative effects that medicalization was having on homosexuals, he consolidated control and forced the change to the DSM through sheer force. To this day, advocates for NARTH and \'91reparative therapy\'92 complain (probably justly) about his willingness to bend the rules. But this doesn\'92t mean that he was wrong---the evidence produced by Socardes and Bieber is terrible, while Hooker\'92s evidence is quite strong. It is up to you and the student to decide if your Spitzer will rely on the power of good ideas and evidence or ram the changes through using parliamentary tricks.\
\
There are a number of other issues that will arise, including whether there can be, or should be, psychological study of women and minority communities.  And almost as importantly, what the responsibilities to the public good a scientist has.\
\
The game culminates in the vote defining \'91mental illness.\'92  There should be at least 3 candidates proposed: Spitzer, Szasz and the Psychoanalysts.  In reality, no one definition ever passed, and the Psychiatric and Psychological community still operate without a formal definition.  In the world of your game, it\'92s pretty much up in the air if anyone will succeed in getting their definition passed.\
}