{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab709
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f0\fs24 \cf0 ### Prologue\
\
Your cab pulls up in front of the Shoreham hotel  in Rock Creek Park, a particularly tranquil part of the chaos that is Washington D.C. You nervously check the entrance to the hotel. It's clear. This year, there are no throngs of protesters bent on face-to-face confrontation.\
\
They must be down at the mall participating in the massive protest calling for an end to the Vietnam war.  The radio reported an estimated crowd of at least 50,000. And that's before the 10,000 National Guardsmen were called into try to open the flow of traffic.\
\
The story was not the same last year, in San Francisco.   \
\
When you arrived at the hotel last year, the entrance was completely blocked by an angry crowd of gay rights activists. Individuals in the crowd were personally confronting\'97non-violently but aggressively\'97any member of the APA who appeared. The activists called this 'Zapping.' You found it terrifying.\
\
Last year\'92s conference was almost shut down by the protesters. There are rumors that the FBI was in attendance last year, and it is almost certain they are here now. The Washington Post covered the event thusly:\
\pard\pardeftab709
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\li709\sa120

\i \cf0 >The Washington Post
\i0  May 14th 1970 -- The gay liberation and their women allies out-shrieked the head shrinkers today and took over an American Psychiatric Association session on sex. Before the morning was over the 500 psychiatrists who gathered to hear scientific studies on sexual problems demonstrated that they were just as prone to anti-social behaviour as anyone else. 'This lack of discipline is disgusting', said Dr Leo Alexander, a psychiatrist at the meeting. Then he diagnosed the problem of one of the lesbian protesters: 'She's a paranoid fool,' the doctor said, 'and a stupid {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://5E7190BD-B278-42E6-8E98-F540D8665559"}}{\fldrslt bitch.'}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120
\cf0 The conference was a circus.  Young men dressed in flamboyant gowns stormed through the hallways. Sessions were disrupted by guerrilla theater. In one, an activist named Frank Kameny grabbed the microphone and shouted \'93Psychiatry is the enemy incarnate. Psychiatry has waged a relentless war of extermination against us. You may take this as a declaration of war against you.\'94\
\
It all culminated in a session featuring Irving Bieber, author of the 1962 study on homosexuality published in his book
\i  *Homosexuality*
\i0 .\
\
According to eye witnesses, a protester interrupted Bieber almost before he started with the claim that \'93I've read your book Dr. Bieber, and if that book talked about black people the way it talks about homosexuals, you'd be drawn and quartered, and you'd deserve it!\'94 [p. 200-201][#Clendinen:2013wy] \
\
Bieber tried to respond by claiming \'93I never said homosexuals were sick\'97what I said was that they had displaced sexual adjustment.\'94  \
\
\'93That's the same thing,
\i  motherfucker
\i0 !\'94 yelled another.\
\
Earlier this year, a meeting of the New York branch of the APA, a handful of gay activists interrupted a talk by noted Psychiatrist from Columbia University Charles Socarides.\
\
There have long been rumors of a shadow organization of homosexual psychiatrists called the 'Gay-PA.\'92 It appears these rumors are\'a0no longer in doubt. The highlight of this year's program promises to be a symposium titled \'93Psychiatry: Friend or Foe to Homosexuals: A Dialogue.\'94 The panel includes Dr. Evelyn Hooker, one of the participants in last year's show down and the mysterious 'Dr. H. Anonymous,' who claims to be both a licensed psychiatrist and homosexual.\
\
Everyone knows that a mentally ill person cannot practice psychiatry. And homosexuality is a mental illness. This Dr. H. Anonymous, if he or she is telling the truth, is risking his or her medical license. But yet there must be more. We all know, ever since Kinsey's famous study, that about 10% of the population identifies as primarily homosexual, while a significantly larger percentage have engaged in homosexual activity.  And ever since Hooker's paper in 1956, we know that most of this population are psychologically normal. Given the numbers attending this meeting, Dr. H. Anonymous surely can't be alone.\
\
On the other hand, Socarides and Bieber have called Hooker and Kinsey's data into question. If they are correct, and only a small percentage of the population is homosexual, on what basis could one call it a 'normal' behavior?  Are homosexuals, as Bieber contends, individuals whose \'93heterosexual function is crippled, like the legs of a polio victim\'94? \
\pard\pardeftab709
\cf0 \
Back in October of 1969, Time magazine had a cover story on the movement amongst homosexuals---who they called '{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://F1558E37-069E-4AD0-8B64-66C302C756C6"}}{\fldrslt inverts'}}---for greater social recognition. In the second paragraph, it referred to \'93gay\'94 bars (with the quotations), but then proceeded to use the word \'93gay\'94 without quotes. It even used the term 'gay marriage.' The article, however, made the following claim:\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\li709\sa120
\cf0 >Most experts agree that a child will not become a homosexual unless he undergoes many emotionally disturbing experiences during the course of several years. A boy who likes dolls or engages in occasional homosexual experiments is not necessarily "queer": such activities are often a normal part of growing up. On the other hand, a child who becomes preoccupied with such interests or is constantly ill at ease with the opposite sex obviously needs some form of psychiatric counseling. While only about one-third of confirmed adult inverts can be helped to change, therapists agree that a much larger number of "prehomosexual" children can be treated successfully\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\fi-283

\fs20 \cf0 \
Who are these 'experts' anyway? Is Psychiatry headed to another embarrassment like the Goldwater {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://379CA64B-B6A7-49A6-9D14-F8E3649B9C11"}}{\fldrslt affair?}}\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\fs24 \cf0 \
These thoughts raise a larger specter in your mind: are psychiatry and psychology *scientific*?\
\
Starting a decade ago, Thomas Szasz, Professor of Psychiatry at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/State_University_of_New_York"}}{\fldrslt State University of New York}} Health Science Center in Syracuse, New York has been arguing, quite publicly, that 'mental illness' is a myth!  His ideas challenge the very foundation of your field.  He's listed on the program, and you're quite excited to get a chance to discuss his polemic claims in some detail.\
\
At the same time, George Miller, who is serving as the President of the APA this year, is something of a revolutionary himself. Miller has been arguing for the existence of something called 'Cognitive Psychology', which directly challenges the 50-year tradition of limiting psychological research to the observation, prediction and control of human behavior. For half a century, psychologists have been convinced that they cannot scientifically investigate unobservable entities like \'91beliefs\'92, \'91desires\'92, \'91personalities\'92 and \'91minds\'92, but rather must study only the behavior of an organism in its environment. Now even that is being challenged!\
\
Are psychology and psychiatry scientific?  Is there such a thing as a 'mental illness'?  Can (or should) science be used to make the world  a better place?  }