{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;\f2\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red135\green135\blue135;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c60000\c60000\c60000;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 ##### Hysteria and Hypnosis: Freud & Breuer on Anna O.
\f1\b0\fs24 \

\f0\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs24 \cf0 By the end of the 19\super th\nosupersub  century, we find general agreement that mental illnesses are characterized by symptoms with no bodily, physical (or in Beard's terms 'organic') {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://A388F77A-B6B7-4452-928C-8E3A847AFA08"}}{\fldrslt explanation.}} That understanding defined the limits of psychiatry. When a condition could be explained in anatomical terms, it was no longer considered psychiatric and reverted to medical or neurological. When it could not be understood physically---when it had to be explained in terms of 'psychic energy\'92---it was given to the psychiatrists.
\f1 \

\f2 \
This thesis was rarely challenged because psychiatrists largely practiced in hospitals that contained psychiatric patients. That sounds circular, but it isn't: Pinel, Esquirol and Charcot were attempting to create a theory of mental illness that could explain the patients they saw before them. The patients they saw before them were not brought there because they fit the theory, or because they had chosen to be there. They were brought to the Bic\'eatre and Salp\'eatri\'e8re when the rest of the medical community had given up attempting to explain their symptoms.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
The same can be said for Beard and Wier Mitchell: Perkins Gilman was taken to see Wier Mitchell only after all other physical interventions had failed.
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 \
These founders of psychiatry theorized about a population that had been deemed mentally ill
\f3\i  *because the medical community had given up explaining their symptoms*
\f2\i0 . Not the other way around. The psychiatric hospital was a kind of catch-all for those individuals whose symptoms could not be alleviated by physical medicine, and hence it is unsurprising that the definitions of insanity we find in this era require the absence of a physical explanation.\
\
Without a control population, there was no way these classifications could tease apart underlying conditions from any effects that may have resulted from being classified this way in the first place. 
\f1 \

\f2 \
`\\index\{Breuer, Josef\}`\{=latex\}`\\newthought\{In 1880, Josef Breuer,\}`\{=latex\} a student of the great psycho-physiologist `\\index\{Hiring, Ewald\}`\{=latex\}Ewald Hering, was studying the ear as a part of his research at Vienna General Hospital. It was there that he first met 'Anna O.', a young woman with an extremely acute cough. Finding *no physical reason* for the cough, her family physician diagnosed her with \'93typical
\f3\i  *tussis nurvosa*
\f2\i0  [nervous cough]\'94 [p 27][#Freud:kVwxqGOZ] 
\f1 \

\f2 \
 Shortly thereafter a number of other symptoms arose. `\\index\{Anna O |(\}`\{=latex\}Freud & Breuer describe her case thusly:
\f1 \

\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li283\partightenfactor0
\cf0 >  Before this time she too had always enjoyed good health, showing no sign of nervous indisposition during her development. Of considerable intelligence, remarkably acute powers of reasoning, and a clear-sighted intuitive sense, her powerful mind could have digested, needed even, more substantial intellectual nourishment, but failed to receive it once she had left school. Her rich poetic and imaginative gifts were controlled by a very sharp and critical common sense. The latter also made her quite closed to suggestion. Only arguments had any influence on her, assertions were without effect. Her will was energetic, tenacious and persistent, sometimes heightened to such obstinacy that it would give way only out of kindness and consideration for others.
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li283\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 > One of her principle traits was a sympathetic kindness. Even during her illness, she benefited greatly from the care and support she gave to some sick and poor people, for it allowed her to satisfy a strong drive. Her spirits always tended slightly to exaggeration, whether of joyfulness or grief, and as a consequence she was also somewhat moody. The element of sexuality was remarkably undeveloped: the patient, whose life became transparent to me in a way that seldom happens between people, had never been in love, and not once in the mass of hallucinations that occurred during her illness did this element of the inner life emerge...
\f1 \

\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 >...The course of the illness falls into several distinct phases. They are as follows:
\f1 \
\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 > A)	Latent incubation. From mid-July 1880 to approximately 10 December. This  case was exceptional because it afforded so complete an insight into a phase that in most cases escapes us, and for this reason alone its pathological interest could not be overestimated. I will expound on this part of the history later.
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 > B)	Manifest illness: a peculiar kind of psychosis, paraphasia,
\f3\i  *stabismus convergens*
\f2\i0  [convergent squint], sever visual disturbance, paralyzing contractures, complete paralysis in the upper right and both lower extremities, partial paralysis in the upper left extremity, paresis of the neck muscles. A gradual reduction in the contracture of the right extremities. Some improvement, interrupted by a sever psychical trauma (death of the father) in April, after which
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 > C)	A period of continual somnambulism ensues, which then alternates with more normal states; continuation of a series of chronic symptoms until December 1881.
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 > D)	Gradual winding down of mental states and symptoms until June 1882. [p25-26][#Freud:kVwxqGOZ]
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 \
Breuer took over her care during the period of 'manifest illness,'  during which, Anna O. slept for great periods of time ('somnambulism'), but when she awoke in the evening, she would complain of 'torment.' Her speech lost all grammatical structure ('paraphasia') and she would piece together words and phrases from the five distinct languages she spoke, producing an incomprehensible jargon. This same jargon appeared in writing, so Breuer knew that it was not a disfunction of the physical mechanism of speech.
\f1 \

\f2 \
In the early spring of 1881, Anna O fell mute for a period of two weeks. At this point, Breuer claims that he 
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 \
> knew she had taken great offense at something and had resolved to say nothing about it. When I guessed as much and forced her to talk about it, the inhibition, which had until then made it impossible for her to speak about anything else either, disappeared. ([p 29][#Freud:kVwxqGOZ])
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 \
After her father's death, her illness became much more severe. Breuer noticed, however, that her periods of sleep in the later afternoon, during which she was 'tormented' by hallucinations, resembled hypnotic states.  He decided to preemptively hypnotize her and prompt her to 'talk through' these tormenting phantasies. The symptoms subsided quickly.  The day after a session, she would become 'quite calm' and 'agreeable, obedient, industrious and even in good spirits'. The second day after a session she would be 'increasingly moody, contrary and disagreeable, and this worsened on the third.'  Anna O. named these sessions (in English) the '
\f3\i talking cure
\f2\i0 ' and '
\f3\i chimney-sweeping.
\f2\i0 '  Breuer preferred the more sophisticated 'cathartic procedure.'
\f1 \

\f2 \
Breuer communicated this to his friend Sigmund Freud, who offered to co-author a paper laying out the findings. That paper, titled 'The Psychic Mechanism of Hysterical Phenomena,' first appeared in 1893, but was republished as the first chapter of Freud and Breuer's
\f3\i  *Studies on Hysteria
\f2\i0 * [1895][#Freud:kVwxqGOZ]. In it, Freud and Breuer propose a new form of hysteria, called 'traumatic hysteria', which they conjecture is always connected to some traumatic event that evokes the syndrome. They further hypothesize that the traumatic event can be unavailable to the conscious, reflective mind of patient---i.e. be unconscious---yet still be causally responsible for the hysterical symptoms.  Moreover, they hypothesize that making the patient aware of the trauma, via Breuer\'92s 'cathartic procedure' using hypnosis if necessary, alleviates the hysteria.
\f1 \

\f2 `\\index\{Anna O |)\}`\{=latex\}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 \
}