{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
`\\index\{Locke, John\}`\{=latex\}John Locke, known to most Americans as the intellectual forebearer of our Constitution, was also an empiricist and chiefly interested in human understanding.  In fact, his most well-known work in Philosophy, his
\f1\i  *Essay on Human Understanding,*
\f0\i0  opens with a fifty-eight page argument against the idea of innate ideas. \
\
Locke picks up the empirical project of responding to Descartes\'92 challenge where Hobbes left off, adding 'reflection' (what we now call 'introspection') to \'91sensation\'92 as a unique source of ideas. For Locke, like for Hobbes , the mind is populated with ideas that originate in experience. We come to understand our minds, and how our minds occasionally lead us astray, by understanding the mental mechanisms that produce ideas from sensation. \
\
Abstract ideas like 'infinity' are the products of this process of abstraction:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li283\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 > Finite then, and infinite, being by the mind looked on as modifications of expansion and duration, the next thing to be considered, is, -How the mind comes by them.  As for the idea of the finite, there is no great difficulty...Every one that has an idea of any stated lengths of space, as a foot, finds that he can repeat that idea; and joining it to the former, make the idea of two feet; and by the addition of a third, three feet; and so on, without every coming to an end of his additions, whether of the same idea of a foot, or, if he pleases, of doubling it, or any idea he has of any length, as a mile, or diameter of the earth, or of the orbis magnus...This, I think, is the way whereby the mind gets the idea of infinite space. --[Book 2, Ch17] [#Locke:1959wj]\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 But like Hobbes, Locke fails to explain how language structure could be produced by a finite mechanism.\
\
`\\newthought\{At the same time\}`\{=latex\} Locke was writing in England, Antione Arnaud, a fervent supporter of Descartes' theory of mind, was developing a school of thought in France which we now call the 'Port-Royalist' movement. ([#Carr:1996uw]) The Port-Royalists held that the structure of grammar was universal for humans and could be reduced to the laws of logic. Unlike the empiricists Hobbes and Locke, however, the Port-Royalists, including the great logician and mathematician `\\index\{Pascal, Blaise\}`\{=latex\}Blaise Pascal, were dualists and theists. ([#Clark1903]) \
\
For the Port-Royalists, thought was different in kind than spoken language, although we tend to think in language through force of habit.  A perfect language, and perfect grammar, would be possible if each word signified unequivocally a single simple idea, and the grammar of speech matched perfectly the 'grammar of thought.' Pure thought, both in its content and its structure, becomes imperfect when 'translated' into an imperfect spoken language. The pure language was, for Pascal at least, Mathematics.\
\
The empiricists Hobbes and Locke have adequately responded to Descartes\'92 assertion that ideas about abstract objects could not have their origin in the physical, finite, world.  But neither of them have managed to respond meaningfully to the assertion that the ability to put ideas together *in language* cannot be the product of the physical, finite world. The Port-Royalists refined Descartes\'92 challenge: it is not enough to produce a machine that made word-sounds; the empiricist had to produce a machine that could generate the theorems of Mathematics.\
\
\
}