{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Italic;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green26\blue249;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue10;
\red51\green51\blue51;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c10196\c97647;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c3922;
\csgenericrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid3\'02\'02.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2160\lin2160 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid4\'02\'03.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2880\lin2880 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\li864\fi-864\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl3
\f0\fs26 \cf0 ##### Overview of assignments, by character\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\f1\fs28 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
`\\begin\{longtable\}[!t]\{  P\{2cm\}  P\{10cm\}  \} \\toprule`\{=latex\}
\f0\fs26 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 `\\tahead\{Paper\} & \\tahead\{Proposals\} \\\\ \\hline`\{=latex\}\
`G Albee & Albee, G. W. (1970) \'93The uncertain future of clinical psychology\'94
\f2\i  \\emph\{American Psychologist\}
\f0\i0  1071-1080 \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`A. Anastasi&Anastasi, A. (1972) \'93The cultivation of diversity\'94
\f2\i  \\emph\{American Psychologist\}
\f0\i0  27(12), 1091-1099 \\\\`\{=latex\}\
`&Anastasi. (1967). \'93Psychology, psychologists, and psychological testing.\'94
\f2\i  \\emph\{American Psychologist\}
\f0\i0  22 (4), p. 297-306  \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`A. Bandura&Bandura, A. (1965). {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.des.emory.edu/mfp/Bandura1965AESP.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Vicarious processes: A case of no-trial learning}}. In L. Berkowitz (Ed.),
\f2\i  \\emph\{Advances in experimental social psychology\}
\f0\i0  (Vol. 2, pp. 1-55). New York: Academic Press. \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`& Bandura, A. (1971). {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.des.emory.edu/mfp/Bandura1971.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Vicarious and self-reinforcement processes}}. In R. Glaser (Ed.),
\f2\i  \\emph\{The nature of reinforcement\}
\f0\i0  (pp. 228-278). New York: Academic Press. [Classic] \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`& Bandura, A. (1974). {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.des.emory.edu/mfp/Bandura1974AP.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Behavior theory and the models of man}}.
\f2\i  \\emph\{American Psychologist\}, 29
\f0\i0 , 859-869.  \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`I. Bieber&Bieber, I. (1962). Homosexuality: A Psychoanalytic Study: By Irving Bieber, et. al. New York: Basic Books, New York  \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`N. Chomsky& Chomsky, N. (1959). "Review of Skinner's Verbal Behaviour" Language 35: 26-58. Electronic copy of \'91review\'92 with preface: \\url\{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://cogprints.org/1148/0/chomsky.htm"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 http://cogprints.org/1148/0/chomsky.htm}}\cf3 \ul \ulc3 \} \cf0 \ulnone \\\\`\{=latex\}\
`&Chomsky, N. (1967). "Recent Contributions to the Theory of Innate Ideas"
\f2\i  Synthese
\f0\i0  17: 2-11. \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`& Chomsky, N. (1967). \'93The Responsibility of Intellectuals\'94
\f2\i  The New York Review of Books
\f0\i0 , Feb 23, 1967. Available at \\url\{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.chomsky.info/articles/19670223.htm"}}{\fldrslt http://www.chomsky.info/articles/19670223.htm}}\} \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`K. Clark&Phillips, L. \'93Recontextualizing Kenneth B. Clark: An Afrocentric Perspective on the Paradoxical Legacy of a Model Psychologist-Activist\'94 from
\f2\i  \\emph\{Evolving Perspectives on the History of Psychology\}
\f0\i0 , Pinkren, W and Dewsbury, D. \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`& Clark, K. (1971) \'93The pathos of power: A psychological perspective\'94
\f2\i  American Psychologist
\f0\i0  26(12) 1047-1057  \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`D. Fordney Settlage&Fordney Settlage, DS, Baroff S, Cooper D 1973. Sexual experience of younger teenage girls seeking contraceptive assistance for the first time. Family Planning Perspectives, Vol. 5, No. 4 Autumn, 1973, p 223-226 (available on Jstor) \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`& Fordney-Settlage DS 1975. Heterosexual dysfunction: Evaluation of treatment procedures. Archives of Sexual Behavior, Volume 4, Number 4 / July, 1975 (DOI: 10.1007/BF01541722) \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`J. Fryer&Scasta, D. (2002) \'93John E. Fryer, MD, and the Dr. H. Anonymous Episode\'94
\f2\i  \\emph\{Journal of Gay and Lesbian Psychotherapy\}
\f0\i0  6(4) 73-84  \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`P. Gebhard&Cornbach, L. J. (1956) \'93The Two Disciplines of Scientific Psychology\'94
\f2\i  American Psychologist
\f0\i0 , 12: 671-684. Available at \\url\{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://psychclassics.yorku.ca/Cronbach/Disciplines/"}}{\fldrslt http://psychclassics.yorku.ca/Cronbach/Disciplines/}}\} \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`R. Gold&Gold, R. \'93Three Stories of Gay Liberation\'94 \\url\{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.queerstories.org/custom.html"}}{\fldrslt http://www.queerstories.org/custom.html}}\} \\\\`\{=latex\}\
`&Moor, Paul (2001) The view from Irving Bieber's couch: \'93Heads I win, tails you lose.\'94 J. Gay and Lesbian Psychotherapy, 5(3/4):25-36. (also reprinted
\f2\i  Sexual Conversion Therapy
\f0\i0  (Ariel Shidlo, Michael Schroeder (PsyD.), Michael Schroeder, Jack Drescher) \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`R. Green&Green, R. \\&  Money, J. (1961) \'93Effeminacy in prepubertal boys; Summary of eleven cases and recommendations for case management.\'94
\f2\i  Pediatrics
\f0\i0  27(2), p. 286-291 \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`& Green, R. (1972) \'93Homosexuality as a Mental Illness\'94
\f2\i  \\emph\{International Journal of Psychiatry\}
\f0\i0  10:77-98 \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`& Fox, K. \'93Vancouver \'96 The Richard Green Interview\'94 \\url\{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://web.archive.org/web/20030609051314/http://www.rfts.a.se/rich_greene.html"}}{\fldrslt http://web.archive.org/web/20030609051314/http://www.rfts.a.se/rich_greene.html}}\}, accessed 2/17/2011 
\f2\i  \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`
\f0\i0 H. Harlow&Harlow, H. (1958) \'93The nature of love\'94
\f2\i  American Psychologist
\f0\i0  13(12) 673-685 On Psych Classics: \\url\{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://psychclassics.yorku..ca/Harlow/love.htm"}}{\fldrslt http://psychclassics.yorku..ca/Harlow/love.htm}}\}. \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`& Harlow, Harry F. (1975). "Lust, latency and love: Simian secrets of successful sex."
\f2\i  Journal of Sex
\f0\i0  
\f2\i Research
\f0\i0  11(2): 79-90. available on {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://jstor.org"}}{\fldrslt jstor.org}}
\f2\i  \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`
\f0\i0 E. Hooker&Hooker, E. (1956). A preliminary analysis of group behavior of homosexuals. Journal of Psychology, 42, 217-225. \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`& Hooker, E. (1957). The adjustment of the male overt homosexual. Journal of Projective Techniques, 21, 18-31. \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`& Hooker, E. (1958). Male homosexuality in the Rorschach. Journal of Projective Techniques, 23, 278-281. \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`& Hooker, E. (1961). Homosexuality: Summary of studies. In E. M. Duvall \\&  S. M. Duvall (Eds.), Sex ways in fact and faith. New York: Association Press.  \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`R. Hopcke&Hopcke, R. (1988) \'93Jung and Homosexuality: A Clearer Vision\'94
\f2\i  Journal of Analytical Psychology
\f0\i0  33, p. 65-80  \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`B. Gittings&Story of Barbara Gittings: \\url\{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.rainbowhistory.org/gittings.htm"}}{\fldrslt http://www.rainbowhistory.org/gittings.htm}}\} \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`& Siegelman, M. (1972). \'93Adjustment of Homosexual and Heterosexual Women.\'94
\f2\i  British Journal of Psychiatry
\f0\i0  120, 477-81. \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`F. Kameny&Read the legal and personal documents of Frank Kameny at \\url\{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.kamenypapers.org/index.htm"}}{\fldrslt http://www.kamenypapers.org/index.htm}}\} \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`& Read the story of the 1971 APA in DC: \\url\{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.rainbowhistory.org/html/apazap.htm"}}{\fldrslt http://www.rainbowhistory.org/html/apazap.htm}}\} \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`H. Lief&Leif, H. (1964) \'93The Psychological Basis of Medical Practice\'94
\f2\i  Postgrad Med J
\f0\i0  40:355 doi:10.1136/pgmj.40.464.355-a  \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`J. Marmor&Marmor, J. (1970) \'93The Limits of Free Association\'94 \\emph\{
\f2\i Arch. Gen. Psychiat
\f0\i0 .\} 22, p. 160-165 \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`& Marmor, J. (Ed.) (1965).
\f2\i  \\emph\{Sexual inversion: The multiple roots of homosexuality\}
\f0\i0  (pp. 83107). New York: Basic Books.  \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`D. Marr&Marr, D. (1982).
\f2\i  \\emph\{Vision: A Computational Investigation into the Human Representation and Processing of Visual Information\}
\f0\i0  MIT Press (esp. Ch 1)
\f2\i  \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`
\f0\i0 S. Milgram& Milgram, S. (1963) \'93Behavioral study of obedience.\'94
\f2\i  Journal of Abnormal and Social Psychology
\f0\i0 , 67, 371\'96378. Available at \\url\{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.wadsworth.com/psychology_d/templates/student_resources/0155060678_rathus/ps/ps01.html"}}{\fldrslt http://www.wadsworth.com/psychology_d/templates/student_resources/0155060678_rathus/ps/ps01.html}}\} with permission from Alexandra Milgram. \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`& Milgram, S. (1967). "\cf4 The Small World Problem\cf0 "
\f2\i \cf4  \\emph\{Psychology Today\}\cf0 ,
\f0\i0  2 p. 60 \'96 67 \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`G. Miller&Miller, G. A. (1956). \'93The magical number seven, plus or minus two: Some limits on our capacity for processing information.\'94
\f2\i  \\emph\{Psychological Review\}, 63
\f0\i0 , 81-97. \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`& Miller, G. A. (1969). Psychology as a means of promoting human welfare.
\f2\i  American Psychologist, 24
\f0\i0 (12), 1063-1075.  \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`J. Piaget&\cf5 Piatelli-Palmarini, M. (Ed.) (1980).
\f2\i  \\emph\{Language and Learning: The Debate between Jean Piaget and Noam Chomsky\}
\f0\i0 , London: Routledge \\& Kegan Paul . Reviewed at: \\url\{http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayAbstract?fromPage=online\\&aid=5843312\}\cf0  \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`L. Tyler
\f2\i &
\f0\i0 Tyler, L.E. (1969).
\f2\i  \\emph\{The Work of the Counselor\}
\f0\i0 , Prentice Hall \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`& Tyler, L. E. (1973) \'93Design for a hopeful psychology\'94
\f2\i  \\emph\{American Psychologist\}
\f0\i0 , 28(12) 1021-1029 \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`C. Socarides&Socarides, C.W. (1963). \'93Homosexuality: A Psychoanalytic Study: By Irving Bieber, et. al. New York: Basic Books Inc., 1962 385 pp.\'94 \\emph\{Psychoanalytic Quarterly\}, 32: 111-114 \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`& Socarides, C. W. (1968). \\emph\{
\f2\i The Overt Homosexual\}
\f0\i0 . Jason Aronson, Inc. \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`& Socarides, C.W. (1970). \'93Homosexuality and Medicine\'94 Journal of the American Medical Association 212 (7): 1199  \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`J. Spiegel &Grinker, R. \\& Spiegel, J. P. (1945)
\f2\i  \\emph\{Men Under Stress\}
\f0\i0  American Psychological Association. Was once available print-on-demand, but is not currently: \\url\{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.apa.org/pubs/books/4320127.aspx"}}{\fldrslt www.apa.org/pubs/books/4320127.aspx}}\} \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`R. Spitzer&Spitzer, R. L. and Endicott, J. \'93Medical and Mental Disorder: Proposed Definition and Criteria\'94 in
\f2\i  \\emph\{Critical Issues in Psychiatric Diagnosis\}
\f0\i0 , Spitzer and Klein, e.d. See also Klein, D. \'93A Proposed Definition of Mental Illness\'94, in the same volume. \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`& Spitzer. Research diagnostic criteria (RDC). Biometrics research (1975) pp. 34 (available at \\url\{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.garfield.library.upenn.edu/classics1989/A1989U309700001.pdf"}}{\fldrslt http://www.garfield.library.upenn.edu/classics1989/A1989U309700001.pdf}}\}) \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`& Spitzer, R. and Fleiss, J. (1974). \'93A Re-analysis of the Reliability of Psychiatric Diagnosis\'94
\f2\i  Brit. J. Psychiat.
\f0\i0  125, 341-7  \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`T. Szasz& Popper, K. R. (1959).
\f2\i  \\emph\{The Logic of Scientific Discovery\}
\f0\i0 . New York: Basic Books \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
` &Szasz, T. (1960). \'93The Myth of Mental Illness\'94
\f2\i  \\emph\{American Psychologist\}
\f0\i0 , 15, p. 113-118 available at \\url\{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://psychclassics.yorku.ca/Szasz/myth.htm"}}{\fldrslt http://psychclassics.yorku.ca/Szasz/myth.htm}}\} \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`P. Zimbardo&Haney, C. Banks, C. \\& Zimbardo, P. (1973). \'93Interpersonal Dynamics in a Simulated Prison\'94
\f2\i  \\emph\{International Journal of Criminology and Penology\}
\f0\i0  1, p. 69-97 \\\\ `\{=latex\}\
`&Zimbardo, P. G. (1972).
\f2\i  \\emph\{The Stanford Prison Experiment a Simulation Study of the Psychology of Imprisonment\}.
\f0\i0  Philip G. Zimbardo, Inc.\\\\ \\bottomrule`\{=latex\}\
`\\caption\{
\f2\i Overview of reading assignments, by character
\f0\i0 \}`\{=latex\}\
`\\label\{overviewofreadingassignmentsbycharacter\}`\{=latex\}\
`\\end\{longtable\}`\{=latex\}}