{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;\f2\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 #### Pre-history of Psychology: Empiricism about the Mind
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
The scientific investigation into the human mind and/or human behavior begins almost simultaneously with science itself.  Our inquiry into its history must then begin with the followers of Francis Bacon, who created the \'91scientific method\'92 and trace the idea that the mind can be studied scientifically through the rise of the empiricists into the present {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://C28BDA2B-BB22-4588-BCF0-044708AA2820"}}{\fldrslt day.}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li283\fi-283\partightenfactor0
\cf0 `\\index\{Bacon, Francis |(\}`\{=latex\}Bacon, who we now credit with establishing 'The Scientific Method,' argued that the human mind tended to distort reality in regular, systematic ways, which he called '{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://F9CEF0A7-BC5B-4FA0-B349-CCA6ABB0A69C"}}{\fldrslt idols.'}} In order to understand reality, we must then give up on the idea that a single person can discover the truth on {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://E059B984-5B6D-43C5-AE74-EA40184655AA"}}{\fldrslt his or her own.}}\
\
 In order to learn about the world, we need to work together, collaboratively creating a \'93
\f3\i natural
\f2\i0  and
\f3\i  experimental
\f2\i0  history\'94 (Bk 2, Ch X, p 109) of the phenomenon of interest.  As working collaboratively can lead to confusion and misunderstanding, we organize that natural and experimental history into a series of tables: including instances of the phenomenon's presence, closely related instances in which the phenomenon is absent, instances in which the phenomenon occurs in degrees or in comparison, and instances of exclusion of the phenomenon. Once these tables are built, we review them and create what Bacon called a 'first harvest' of the phenomenon: a generalized axiom unifying the all the recorded observations. Once that first axiom is established, we return to the tables, highlighting privileged instances which are further classified as solitary, transitory, revealing, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://18D5FAF5-7C49-40FF-9DAD-E42E49A3647D"}}{\fldrslt etc.}} These, in turn, can be used to further refine the first harvest into further, more careful axioms.\
\
With the benefit of his connections to the`\\label\{baconfootnote\}`\{=latex\} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://B5285BEF-88F2-47C5-A24A-FC813ED597B7"}}{\fldrslt Royal court, }}Bacon profoundly influenced Elizabethan England. His empirical method sparked inquiry in almost all areas of human knowledge, and formed the basis for what we now call the 'scientific revolution' or the 'enlightenment.' And his influence on the creation of psychology and psychiatry is actually far more direct than most would assume.  \
\
`\\newthought\{Late in his life,\}`\{=latex\} Bacon became friends with the Philosopher `\\index\{Hobbes, Thomas |(\}`\{=latex\}Thomas Hobbes. In fact, Hobbes founded a Baconian reading group in Oxford, which is the forbearer of the Royal Society\'97the world's oldest scientific body.`\\index\{Bacon, Francis |)\}`\{=latex\}\
\
Thomas Hobbes, who is most widely known for his initiation of social-contract theory in defense of absolute monarchy, opens his master work
\f3\i  *Leviathan*
\f2\i0  with this bold claim:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li283\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 > Nature (the art whereby God hath made and governs the world) is by the
\f3\i  *art*
\f2\i0  of man, as in many other things, so in this also imitated, that it can make an artificial animal.  For seeing life is but a motion of limbs, the beginning whereof is in some principal part within, why may we not say that all
\f3\i  *automata*
\f2\i0  (engines that move themselves by springs and wheels as doth a watch) have an artificial life? For what is the
\f3\i  *heart*
\f2\i0 , but a
\f3\i  *spring*
\f2\i0 ; and the
\f3\i  *nerves*
\f2\i0 , but so many
\f3\i  *strings*
\f2\i0 ; and the
\f3\i  *joints*
\f2\i0 , but so many
\f3\i  *wheels*
\f2\i0 , giving motion to the whole body such was was intended by the artificer? [Ch 1, `\\S`\{=latex\} 1, italics in original][#Hobbes:1651wh]\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Just as his famous social-political philosophy posited universal laws of human conduct, Hobbes believed that the human mind followed to universal laws which were deducible through reason. Always a Baconian, Hobbes begins by separating---or \'91creating tables\'92---of creatures who have minds (humans) and those who do not (all non-human animals), and then quering the difference between those two.\
\
According to Hobbes, humans surpass animals in this faculty: \
\
>that when he conceived anything whatsoever, he was apt to inquire the consequences of it, and what effects he could do with it.\'94  In addition, humans can \'93can by words reduce the consequences he finds to general rules, called theorems, or aphorisms; that is, he can reason, or reckon, not only in number, but in all other things whereof one may be added unto or subtracted from another. [Ch V, `\\S`\{=latex\}6][#Hobbes:1651wh].  \
\
Thus we have the beginning of psychology: human minds work by the process of deducing consequences and abstracting from particular experiences to general rules through basic logical functions. `\\index\{Hobbes, Thomas |)\}`\{=latex\}\
}