{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green26\blue249;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue10;
\red51\green51\blue51;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c10196\c97647;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c3922;
\csgenericrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid3\'02\'02.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2160\lin2160 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid4\'02\'03.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2880\lin2880 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\li864\fi-864\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl3
\f0\fs26 \cf0 ##### Overview of assignments, by character\
\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0  | Paper |  Proposals |\
|---------|--------------------|\
| G Albee  |  Albee, G. W. (1970) \'93The uncertain future of clinical psychology\'94
\f1\i  *American Psychologist*
\f0\i0  1071-1080 | \
| A. Anastasi | Anastasi, A. (1972) \'93The cultivation of diversity\'94
\f1\i  *American Psychologist*
\f0\i0  27(12), 1091-1099  |\
| | Anastasi. (1967). \'93Psychology, psychologists, and psychological testing.\'94
\f1\i  *American Psychologist*
\f0\i0  22 (4), p. 297-306  | \
| A. Bandura | Bandura, A. (1965). {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.des.emory.edu/mfp/Bandura1965AESP.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Vicarious processes: A case of no-trial learning}}. In L. Berkowitz (Ed.),
\f1\i  *Advances in experimental social psychology*
\f0\i0  (Vol. 2, pp. 1-55). New York: Academic Press. | \
| | Bandura, A. (1971). {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.des.emory.edu/mfp/Bandura1971.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Vicarious and self-reinforcement processes}}. In R. Glaser (Ed.),
\f1\i  *The nature of reinforcement*
\f0\i0  (pp. 228-278). New York: Academic Press. [Classic] | \
| | Bandura, A. (1974). {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.des.emory.edu/mfp/Bandura1974AP.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Behavior theory and the models of man}}.
\f1\i  *American Psychologist*, 29
\f0\i0 , 859-869.  | \
| I. Bieber | Bieber, I. (1962). Homosexuality: A Psychoanalytic Study: By Irving Bieber, et. al. New York: Basic Books, New York  | \
| N. Chomsky |  Chomsky, N. (1959). "Review of Skinner's Verbal Behaviour" Language 35: 26-58. Electronic copy of \'91review\'92 with preface: <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://cogprints.org/1148/0/chomsky.htm"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 http://cogprints.org/1148/0/chomsky.htm}}\cf3 \ul \ulc3 >  |\cf0 \ulnone \
| | Chomsky, N. (1967). "Recent Contributions to the Theory of Innate Ideas"
\f1\i  Synthese
\f0\i0  17: 2-11. | \
| | Chomsky, N. (1967). \'93The Responsibility of Intellectuals\'94
\f1\i  The New York Review of Books
\f0\i0 , Feb 23, 1967. Available at <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.chomsky.info/articles/19670223.htm"}}{\fldrslt http://www.chomsky.info/articles/19670223.htm}}> | \
| K. Clark | Phillips, L. \'93Recontextualizing Kenneth B. Clark: An Afrocentric Perspective on the Paradoxical Legacy of a Model Psychologist-Activist\'94 from
\f1\i  *Evolving Perspectives on the History of Psychology*
\f0\i0 , Pinkren, W and Dewsbury, D. | \
| | Clark, K. (1971) \'93The pathos of power: A psychological perspective\'94
\f1\i  American Psychologist
\f0\i0  26(12) 1047-1057  | \
| D. Fordney Settlage | Fordney Settlage, DS, Baroff S, Cooper D 1973. Sexual experience of younger teenage girls seeking contraceptive assistance for the first time. Family Planning Perspectives, Vol. 5, No. 4 Autumn, 1973, p 223-226 (available on Jstor) | \
| | Fordney-Settlage DS 1975. Heterosexual dysfunction: Evaluation of treatment procedures. Archives of Sexual Behavior, Volume 4, Number 4 / July, 1975 (DOI: 10.1007/BF01541722) | \
| J. Fryer | Scasta, D. (2002) \'93John E. Fryer, MD, and the Dr. H. Anonymous Episode\'94
\f1\i  *Journal of Gay and Lesbian Psychotherapy*
\f0\i0  6(4) 73-84  | \
| P. Gebhard | Cornbach, L. J. (1956) \'93The Two Disciplines of Scientific Psychology\'94
\f1\i  American Psychologist
\f0\i0 , 12: 671-684. Available at <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://psychclassics.yorku.ca/Cronbach/Disciplines/"}}{\fldrslt http://psychclassics.yorku.ca/Cronbach/Disciplines/}}> | \
| R. Gold | Gold, R. \'93Three Stories of Gay Liberation\'94 <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.queerstories.org/custom.html"}}{\fldrslt http://www.queerstories.org/custom.html}}> |\
| | Moor, Paul (2001) The view from Irving Bieber's couch: \'93Heads I win, tails you lose.\'94 J. Gay and Lesbian Psychotherapy, 5(3/4):25-36. (also reprinted
\f1\i  Sexual Conversion Therapy
\f0\i0  (Ariel Shidlo, Michael Schroeder (PsyD.), Michael Schroeder, Jack Drescher) | \
| R. Green | Green, R. \\&  Money, J. (1961) \'93Effeminacy in prepubertal boys; Summary of eleven cases and recommendations for case management.\'94
\f1\i  Pediatrics
\f0\i0  27(2), p. 286-291 | \
| | Green, R. (1972) \'93Homosexuality as a Mental Illness\'94
\f1\i  *International Journal of Psychiatry*
\f0\i0  10:77-98 | \
| | Fox, K. \'93Vancouver \'96 The Richard Green Interview\'94 <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://web.archive.org/web/20030609051314/http://www.rfts.a.se/rich_greene.html"}}{\fldrslt http://web.archive.org/web/20030609051314/http://www.rfts.a.se/rich_greene.html}}>, accessed 2/17/2011 
\f1\i  | 
\f0\i0 \
| H. Harlow | Harlow, H. (1958) \'93The nature of love\'94
\f1\i  American Psychologist
\f0\i0  13(12) 673-685 On Psych Classics: <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://psychclassics.yorku..ca/Harlow/love.htm"}}{\fldrslt http://psychclassics.yorku..ca/Harlow/love.htm}}>. | \
| | Harlow, Harry F. (1975). "Lust, latency and love: Simian secrets of successful sex."
\f1\i  Journal of Sex
\f0\i0  
\f1\i Research
\f0\i0  11(2): 79-90. available on {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://jstor.org"}}{\fldrslt jstor.org}}
\f1\i  | 
\f0\i0 \
| E. Hooker | Hooker, E. (1956). A preliminary analysis of group behavior of homosexuals. Journal of Psychology, 42, 217-225. | \
| | Hooker, E. (1957). The adjustment of the male overt homosexual. Journal of Projective Techniques, 21, 18-31. | \
| | Hooker, E. (1958). Male homosexuality in the Rorschach. Journal of Projective Techniques, 23, 278-281. | \
| | Hooker, E. (1961). Homosexuality: Summary of studies. In E. M. Duvall \\&  S. M. Duvall (Eds.), Sex ways in fact and faith. New York: Association Press.  | \
| R. Hopcke | Hopcke, R. (1988) \'93Jung and Homosexuality: A Clearer Vision\'94
\f1\i  Journal of Analytical Psychology
\f0\i0  33, p. 65-80  | \
| B. Gittings | Story of Barbara Gittings: <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.rainbowhistory.org/gittings.htm"}}{\fldrslt http://www.rainbowhistory.org/gittings.htm}}> | \
| | Siegelman, M. (1972). \'93Adjustment of Homosexual and Heterosexual Women.\'94
\f1\i  British Journal of Psychiatry
\f0\i0  120, 477-81. | \
| F. Kameny | Read the legal and personal documents of Frank Kameny at <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.kamenypapers.org/index.htm"}}{\fldrslt http://www.kamenypapers.org/index.htm}}> | \
| | Read the story of the 1971 APA in DC: <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.rainbowhistory.org/html/apazap.htm"}}{\fldrslt http://www.rainbowhistory.org/html/apazap.htm}}> | \
| H. Lief | Leif, H. (1964) \'93The Psychological Basis of Medical Practice\'94
\f1\i  Postgrad Med J
\f0\i0  40:355 doi:10.1136/pgmj.40.464.355-a  | \
| J. Marmor | Marmor, J. (1970) \'93The Limits of Free Association\'94 *
\f1\i Arch. Gen. Psychiat
\f0\i0 .* 22, p. 160-165 | \
| | Marmor, J. (Ed.) (1965).
\f1\i  *Sexual inversion: The multiple roots of homosexuality*
\f0\i0  (pp. 83107). New York: Basic Books.  | \
| D. Marr | Marr, D. (1982).
\f1\i  *Vision: A Computational Investigation into the Human Representation and Processing of Visual Information*
\f0\i0  MIT Press (esp. Ch 1)
\f1\i  | 
\f0\i0 \
| S. Milgram |  Milgram, S. (1963) \'93Behavioral study of obedience.\'94
\f1\i  Journal of Abnormal and Social Psychology
\f0\i0 , 67, 371\'96378. Available at <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.wadsworth.com/psychology_d/templates/student_resources/0155060678_rathus/ps/ps01.html"}}{\fldrslt http://www.wadsworth.com/psychology_d/templates/student_resources/0155060678_rathus/ps/ps01.html}}> with permission from Alexandra Milgram. | \
| | Milgram, S. (1967). "\cf4 The Small World Problem\cf0 "
\f1\i \cf4  *Psychology Today*\cf0 ,
\f0\i0  2 p. 60 \'96 67 | \
| G. Miller | Miller, G. A. (1956). \'93The magical number seven, plus or minus two: Some limits on our capacity for processing information.\'94
\f1\i  *Psychological Review*, 63
\f0\i0 , 81-97. | \
| | Miller, G. A. (1969). Psychology as a means of promoting human welfare.
\f1\i  American Psychologist, 24
\f0\i0 (12), 1063-1075.  | \
| J. Piaget | \cf5 Piatelli-Palmarini, M. (Ed.) (1980).
\f1\i  *Language and Learning: The Debate between Jean Piaget and Noam Chomsky*
\f0\i0 , London: Routledge \\& Kegan Paul . Reviewed at: <http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayAbstract?fromPage=online\\&aid=5843312>\cf0  | \
| L. Tyler
\f1\i  | 
\f0\i0 Tyler, L.E. (1969).
\f1\i  *The Work of the Counselor*
\f0\i0 , Prentice Hall | \
| | Tyler, L. E. (1973) \'93Design for a hopeful psychology\'94
\f1\i  *American Psychologist*
\f0\i0 , 28(12) 1021-1029 | \
| C. Socarides | Socarides, C.W. (1963). \'93Homosexuality: A Psychoanalytic Study: By Irving Bieber, et. al. New York: Basic Books Inc., 1962 385 pp.\'94 *Psychoanalytic Quarterly*, 32: 111-114 | \
| | Socarides, C. W. (1968). *
\f1\i The Overt Homosexual*
\f0\i0 . Jason Aronson, Inc. | \
| | Socarides, C.W. (1970). \'93Homosexuality and Medicine\'94 Journal of the American Medical Association 212 (7): 1199  | \
| J. Spiegel  | Grinker, R. \\& Spiegel, J. P. (1945)
\f1\i  *Men Under Stress*
\f0\i0  American Psychological Association. Was once available print-on-demand, but is not currently: <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.apa.org/pubs/books/4320127.aspx"}}{\fldrslt www.apa.org/pubs/books/4320127.aspx}}> | \
| R. Spitzer | Spitzer, R. L. and Endicott, J. \'93Medical and Mental Disorder: Proposed Definition and Criteria\'94 in
\f1\i  *Critical Issues in Psychiatric Diagnosis*
\f0\i0 , Spitzer and Klein, e.d. See also Klein, D. \'93A Proposed Definition of Mental Illness\'94, in the same volume. | \
| | Spitzer. Research diagnostic criteria (RDC). Biometrics research (1975) pp. 34 (available at <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.garfield.library.upenn.edu/classics1989/A1989U309700001.pdf"}}{\fldrslt http://www.garfield.library.upenn.edu/classics1989/A1989U309700001.pdf}}>) | \
| | Spitzer, R. and Fleiss, J. (1974). \'93A Re-analysis of the Reliability of Psychiatric Diagnosis\'94
\f1\i  Brit. J. Psychiat.
\f0\i0  125, 341-7  | \
| T. Szasz |  Popper, K. R. (1959).
\f1\i  *The Logic of Scientific Discovery*
\f0\i0 . New York: Basic Books | \
| | Szasz, T. (1960). \'93The Myth of Mental Illness\'94
\f1\i  *American Psychologist*
\f0\i0 , 15, p. 113-118 available at <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://psychclassics.yorku.ca/Szasz/myth.htm"}}{\fldrslt http://psychclassics.yorku.ca/Szasz/myth.htm}}> | \
| P. Zimbardo | Haney, C. Banks, C. \\& Zimbardo, P. (1973). \'93Interpersonal Dynamics in a Simulated Prison\'94
\f1\i  *International Journal of Criminology and Penology*
\f0\i0  1, p. 69-97 |\
| | Zimbardo, P. G. (1972).
\f1\i  *The Stanford Prison Experiment a Simulation Study of the Psychology of Imprisonment*.
\f0\i0  Philip G. Zimbardo, Inc. | \
[
\f1\i Overview of reading assignments, by character
\f0\i0 ]\
}