{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f2\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 #### Committees\
\
Getting the committees to function well can be challenging---in the game as in real life.  In the ideal form, the committees would do their work outside of class, and report in class to the Board at the end of each conference.  In reality, you may have to give time at the start of class to allow committees to meet and hash out their decisions.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb240\sa120

\f1\b\fs24 \cf0 ##### Board of Directors\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb240\sa120

\b0 \cf0 \
**Responsibilities:**\
\
* Hold open meetings each conference where topics can be discussed and voted upon.\
\
**Powers:**\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360
\ls1\ilvl0
\f2 \cf0 * Issue public proclamations on behalf of the membership.
\f1 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f2 * Full control of official publications, such as the DSM.
\f1 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f2 * Create ad-hoc committees and task forces, as necessary.
\f1 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f2 * Oversee and receive reports from the standing committees.\
* Censure---can strip any member of credibility at any time. Generally reserved for use of ad hominem attacks or other bad behavior.  Any number of credibility points can be stripped.\
* Banning---rarely used, but available if necessary. Can place a lifetime ban on any member at anytime.\
* Confer 1-10 credibility points on retiring board members in recognition of their \'91distinguished service\'92
\f1 \
\
\
**Potential Pitfalls**\
\
* The election process of VP's may confuse students.  It is not an uncommon practice in higher ed, but in my experience, the students find it very strange to elect VPs, not Presidents.  It is probably worthwhile explaining it in person before game play begins.\
\
* The game is setup to require a 'built in' 48-hour rule, where proposals to the board cannot be voted on in the same class period where they were presented.  If that does not work for your class schedule, make sure everyone on the board and the membership understands it before the first open meeting.\
\
* The boards I have worked with are tentative about using their powers, and are naturally conservative in taking actions.  This, again, isn't that surprising.  For example, I've never had a board that was ready to act on Marmor's proposal in 1971.  They *always* want to come to consensus, and turf it to a committee that comes back in 1973. If the board decides to act immediately, that's fine---you can flip the 1973 symposium on its head and have Socarides and Bieber present a panel on why they believe the demedicalization was incorrect, and have Gold as a critic.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb240\sa120

\b\fs22 \cf0 ##### Research Committee\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb240\sa120

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f2 \cf0 The research committee is charged with distributing grants to fund research as well as enforcing the APA's Ethical Standards in the practice of Psychology and Psychiatry (see Appendix <!--\\ref\{
\f1\fs28 app: APAEthics\}-->
\f2\fs24 ). **The \'91research\'92 thread of the game depends entirely on the research committee functioning well**.  \
\
**Responsibilites**\
\
* Solicit proposals in the form of a 'call for research grants' --- an example is included in <!--\\fullref\{sample:callforresearchgrants\}--> in the Game Book.\
\
\
**Powers** \
\
* Award grants to those proposals it deems excellent. Grants give the grantee the right to 'use' the class for their experiment for no more than 1 class session.\
\
* Hearing and deciding on cases of research ethics, including recommending punishments to the Board for violators up to and including banning from the APA for life.\
\
* Confer 1-5 credibility points on retiring board members in recognition of their \'91distinguished service\'92\
\
**Potential Pitfalls**\
\
* No one submits research proposals: we have included a number of sample proposals that are summaries of famous experiments from this era in Section <!--\\fullref\{researchcommitteeproposals\}-->. We\'92ve also included a handful of classroom \'91experiments\'92 from the APA Handbooks on teaching that are consistent with the game and time period in the appendix. Table <!--\\fullref\{
\f0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
table: labs\}--> lists labs and who might submit them as proposals for what purpose.
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0  Feel free to submit one or two of these to the research committee \'91anonymously\'92, each week, and if approved, assign one of the committee members to lead the study.\
\
* Research committee fails to recognize ethical violations: This is especially important if Zimbardo submits his proposal. According to the 1968 guidelines, the proposal should be approved---as it was at Stanford. But there are obvious problems.  If they approve it, the game master can intervene as \'93an outraged public\'94 and demand a correction to the 1968 guidelines.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li283\fi-283

\f1\b\fs22 \cf0 ##### Nomenclature Committee\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb240\sa120

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f2 \cf0 The Nomenclature committee is charged with maintaining the official terminology of psychology and psychiatry.  This is embodied by the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual, which is the definitive source for definitions and classifications of mental disorders.  \
\
**Responsibilites**\
\
* Maintain the official diagnostic and statistical manual of mental illness.\
\
**Powers**\
\
* Define what kind of behaviors qualify as \'91mental illnesses\'92, thereby (because of the rise of health insurance and managed care) defining what kind of behaviors psychologists and psychiatrists can get paid to treat.\
* Add a paper, panel or symposium topic to any conference agenda without review of the Program Committee.\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 * Confer 1-5 credibility points on retiring board members in recognition of their \'91distinguished service.\'92\
\
**Potential Pitfalls**\
\
* Spitzer will push the board to dissolve the Nomenclature committee and replace with a task force.  If unsuccessful, all attempts to define \'91mental illness\'92 will be brought to the Nomenclature committee instead of to the Board.  That will require that the Nomenclature committee exercise its power to add a session at an upcoming conference.  The Game master will be required to ensure there is adequate time for discussion and voting on these contentious issues.  If Spitzer is successful in his proposal to dissolve the Nomenclature committee, that debate will occur during the Board meeting where the Task Force reports.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb240\sa120

\f1\b\fs22 \cf0 ##### Program Committee
\b0\fs24 \

\b\fs22 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120

\f2\b0\fs24 \cf0 The Program Committee is charged with creating the schedule for each conference, including disseminating the Call for Proposals and judging submissions. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 **Responsibilities**\
\
* Solicit proposals from the membership.\
* Create the schedule for each conference.\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 * Confer 1-3 credibility points on retiring board members in recognition of their \'91distinguished service.\'92\
\
**Powers**\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120
\cf0 \
* Decide who gets to speak at any conference, thereby determining who has the ability to gain credibility.\
\
**Potential Pitfalls**\
\
* **Disengaged committee:** in my experience, this committee has been the most difficult. It is hard for them to see that their power is probably the most significant in the game, as they control who is eligible to earn credibility, and hence, who is eligible to hold any of the positions in the APA. Students are often inclined, as they probably should be, to simply allow anyone who wants to talk to do so.  You may wish to restrict the number of presentations per session, in order to help them understand the importance of the committee\'92s decision-making.\
\
* **Overly strict committee:** I\'92ve never had this happen, but it is worth noting it as a possibility.  Every student is required to present at least once in the course of the game. A Program committee could, in theory, \'91blacklist\'92 a player, thereby making it impossible for that student to complete his or her goals. The game master needs to balance the principles of academic respect with the politics of the game. If this were to happen, the best solution would be for the blacklisted to student to use the game mechanisms to fix his or her problem: run for the committee, or recruit an ally to do so, and allow his or her paper at the next conference.  If that is impossible---say the blacklisted student waited until the final week to recognize the problem---you\'92ll need to use your own discretion.}