{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;\f2\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;\f4\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red135\green135\blue135;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c60000\c60000\c60000;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 ##### Freud: The foundation of psychoanalysis
\f1\b0\fs24 \

\f0\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs24 \cf0 `\\index\{Freud, Sigmund |(\}`\{=latex\}The seeds of psychoanalysis were planted by Charcot and Breuer, but they did not develop into a full-fledged system of Psychiatry until Freud worked independently. Building on his theory of unconscious trauma to explain hysteria, Freud hypothesizes that traumatic events may manifest themselves in the mind indirectly in the form of symbols. He then went on to hypothesize that the fantasy lives of psychotic patients are full of such symbols, and recovering the original trauma requires investigation of the mechanisms of symbolization.
\f1 \

\f2 \
It was this realization that gives us the basis for psychoanalysis, for it is this realization that allows Freud to argue that the hallucinations and fantasies experiences by the psychotic are not significantly different from the dreams of the sane. Whereas prior to Freud, dreams and hallucinations were thought to be without meaning, after Freud they were seen as full of symbolic representations, the meanings of which were available empirically through systematic investigation of the mechanisms of psychological representation. Freud's proposed mechanisms are introduced in the `\\fullref\{classical\}`\{=latex\}.
\f1 \

\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li283\fi-283\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 The barrier between the mentally ill and the mentally healthy had been permanently {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://0AD44790-1CFD-451B-8FA8-0037CBCC2ED4"}}{\fldrslt broken.}} No longer does the theory of psychiatry apply
\f3\i  only
\f2\i0  to those who cannot be helped by medicine. Now the theory applies to everyone: a healthy person could become ill through unhealthy habits of mental representation, and ill people could become healthy through the process of discovering their habits of mental representation and recognizing their unconscious traumas.  
\f1\fs24 \

\f2\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 This conflation of psychiatric conditions and normal life left Freud in the precarious position of having to define 'mental illness.'  He did so thus:\

\f1 `\\begin\{apatextbox\}\{Freud\'92s Definition of Mental Illness\}`\{=latex\}
\f2  Symptoms\'97and of course we are dealing now with psychical (or psychogenic) symptoms and psychical illness\'97are acts detrimental, or at least useless, to the subject's life as a whole, often complained by him as unwelcome and bringing unpleasure or suffering to him. ([p. 445][#Freud:QdOvAgyZ])\
\pard\pardeftab720\li283\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
`\\label\{def:freud\}\\end\{apatextbox\}`\{=latex\}
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f4\b \cf0 \
\
`\\label\{neurosisandpsychosis\}`\{=latex\}**Neurosis v. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://D8C97592-6A73-4EB1-858D-F3CFB1E78437"}}{\fldrslt Psychosis.}}**
\f2\b0  The psychoanalytic taxonomy of mental illness has three main divisions: psychosis, neurosis and \'91other\'92 or \'91borderline\'92 between the two. \
\
One of the hallmarks of Freud's theory is his thesis that the there is no hard and fast distinction to be made between the mentally ill and the mentally healthy. His
\f3\i  *Introductory Lectures*
\f2\i0  are structured to introduce the reader to psychopathology in everyday life before extending the analysis of common activities to psychotics and neurotic patients.  As such, there are no hard and fast definitions of either psychosis or {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://7D3DC713-7949-4FF2-B6BD-2E30B4A888EB"}}{\fldrslt neurosis}}.
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 \
During the course of normal development of mentally healthy adults, Freud hypothesized, the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://63C52A6B-F1D9-435D-B723-BDF8406733A2"}}{\fldrslt ego}} must become 'reasonable': it must no longer let \
\
> itself be governed by the pleasure principle, but obeys the
\f3\i  reality principle
\f2\i0 , which also at bottom seeks to obtain pleasure, but pleasure which is assured through taking account of reality, even though it is pleasure postponed and diminished. (p. 444)\
\
 A neurotic's ego fails to make this transition, and gets stuck at one point in development.  Thus, the neurotic's libido and ego are still struggling in a child-like way, but the contents of the struggle have been transformed into objects of adulthood. Neurotic symptoms are the \'93outcome of a conflict which arises over a new method of satisfying the libido\'94 (p. 446) and a person is ill from neurosis only if \'93his ego has lost the capacity to allocate his libido in some way\'94 (p. 480). A psychotic patient, however, has lost the battle for the reality principle, and the libido has created its own reality.
\f1 \

\f2 \
The object of a neurosis, then, is relevant to the diagnosis only insofar as it is a stand-in for the actual conflict by the mechanisms of repression, reaction formation, isolation, etc.  According to Freud: \
\
> clinical psychiatry takes little notice of the outward form or content of individual symptoms, but psychoanalysis takes matters up at precisely that point and has established in the first place the fact that symptoms have a sense and are related to the patient's experience. (p. 318)
\f1 \
}