{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab709
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf0 John Spiegel, MD
\i0 \
Your Biography\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 You are John P. Spiegel, MD. You were born in 1911 in Chicago.  You graduated from Dartmouth College and went to Medical school at Northwestern. You are a former president of the American Academy of Psychoanalysis.\
During WWII, you were a medical officer in the army, where you became friends with Dr. Roy Grinker. The two of you co-authored a hugely influential book at the end of the war titled
\i  Men Under Stress
\i0 , in which you argued that combat fatigue (now called 'post traumatic stress disorder') was not a character flaw, but could happen to anyone.\
Since the end of the war, you've taught at the University of Chicago and Harvard. You were offered the directorship of the Lemberg Center for the Study of Violence at Brandeis in 1966, and you took it. You've been there ever since.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Objectives\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 You are a member of the secret faction 'The Young Turks' with Judd Marmor. This is a group of politically progressive psychiatrists founded in 1970, after the events in San Francisco, dedicated to changing the direction psychiatry for the future. You have a connection to the 'Group for the Advancement of Psychiatry,' which has been advocating for progressive causes\'97specifically, limiting the use of electroshock therapy, ending the persecution of homosexuals by the US Military, desegregating the American south, etc\'97in psychiatry since the end of WWII.  \
As a first step, the Young Turks will propose to the Board of Directors that homosexuality be removed from the next edition of the DSM during the 1971 conference.  You'll notice that you start the game on the nomenclature committee with Spitzer. Thus, the task of making the proposal will fall to Marmor, but you'll be there on nomenclature when it comes to your committee for discussion. It is your responsibility to convince Spitzer and and Albee to support the proposal.\
You should participate on the task force to report on the treatment of homosexuality with George Albee between 1971-1972.  That task force should provide the historical background necessary for the nomenclature board to make its decision.\
Once that is passed, you will work closely with Robert Spitzer on the formation of his task force. You should run for vice president in 1974 / 1975, so that you will be president when Spitzer's report is due. If elected for 1975, your presidential address should endorse and defend the new form of the DSM taxonomy. Your ideology here is pragmatic. You want homosexuality removed, but are willing to make compromises on  other issues.  It is far more important to you that homosexuality is removed from the nomenclature and a theoretically-neutral DSM is created than any specific item of classification.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\b \cf0 When, and if, the game reaches a point of trying to define mental illness
\b0 , you must pass a psychoanalytic interpretation of mental disorder / illness.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\i\b \cf0 Specific Assignments\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\i0\b0 \cf0 Working with R. Green (if he is a character in your gam), petition the Board of Directors in 1971 to create a task force to conduct a historical survey and literature review on the Psychiatric and Psychological treatment of homosexuality. The task force should be be balanced between psychologists and psychiatrists, so you need a psychiatrist to support the effort \'96 E. Hooker and G. Albee are a good choices. Prepared to turn in a report by 1972.\
\pard\pardeftab709
\cf0 Your report (due in 1972) should be titled \'93Homosexuality as Mental {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://6EAF1D64-8B2B-4F16-9DA8-DBCED9F802C0"}}{\fldrslt Illness,\'94}} and it should summarize the issues at stake in forthcoming debate, as well as cover the history of the classification of homosexuality by the psychological sciences. R. Green and you should co-author the report. You should invite responses to your paper from Socarides & Beiber and Judd Marmor.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Must Read\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\sa120

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 Grinker, R. & Spiegel, J. P. (1945)
\i  Men Under Stress
\i0  American Psychological Association. Was once available print-on-demand, but is not currently: ww.apa.org/pubs/books/4320127.aspx\
}