{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab709
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf0 Robert Hopcke\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\fs24 \cf0 Psychoanalyst Overview:\
\
\pard\pardeftab709

\f1\i0\b0 \cf0 The central issue in this game\'97whether it be voiced in the selection of experiments to be run via the grants committee or in the classification of mental illness in the nomenclature committee\'97is the the nature of the scientific investigation of the human mind. For the psychoanalysts, as opposed to the behaviorists, the science of the mind is not about predicting and controlling behavior. It is about discovering the true things about our minds.  Thus, a treatment or theory is judged as 'good' or 'working' not if it changes the behavior of a person, but whether or not that person gains insight into their own minds.\
\
When practicing a technique like free association or transference, a psychoanalyst does not seek to discover what a given symbol means
\i  to everyone
\i0 , as a matter of a law-like generalization. Rather, a psychoanalyst seeks to discover what a given symbol means to
\i  the person being analyzed
\i0 . It follows that a given discovery may not generalize over individuals. But that does not mean that that discovery is wrong or false. It stands to reason, then, that one does not have the ground to criticize psychoanalysis until one has experienced psychoanalysis first hand.\
\
Most famous quote on Freud, from the preface to
\i  The Psychology of Dementia Praecox
\i0  (see Storr)\
\pard\pardeftab709\li709
\cf0  I can assure the reader that in the beginning I naturally entertained all the objections that are customarily made against Freud in the literature. ... Fairness to Freud does not imply, as many fear, unqualified submission to a dogma; one can very well maintain an independent judgment. If I, for instance, acknowledge the complex mechanisms of dreams and hysteria, this does not mean that I attribute to the infantile sexual trauma the significance that Freud does. Still less does it mean that I place sexuality so predominantly in the foreground, or that I grant it the psychological universality which Freud, it seems, postulates in view of the admittedly enormous role which sexuality plays in the psyche. As for Freud's therapy, it is at best but one of several possible methods, and perhaps does not always offer in practice what one expects from it in theory. (Jung, 1906, 3-4; Kerr, 115-116)\
\pard\pardeftab709
\cf0 \
Jung on homosexuality:\
\
Jung, C.G. (1954) originally ()
\i  Freud and Psychoanalysis
\i0  88-226\
\pard\pardeftab709

\i \cf0 	
\i0 Homosexuality on p. 108 and 112. Development of 'normal' sexuality on p. 128\
\
Jung, C.G. (1954) originally ()
\i  The Development of Personality
\i0  IV and V\
\pard\pardeftab709\li709
\cf0 Homosexuality on 126-127, 156-157, 159-160. 160 has the unconscious meaning thereof.\
\
\pard\pardeftab709
\cf0 Jung, C.G. \'93The Love Problem of a Student\'94 in
\i  Civilization in Transition
\i0 . Compare to Freud's \'93 The Psychogenesis of a case of Homosexuality in a Woman\'94 (Appendix X)\
\
Reader:\
Storr, A. (1983)
\i  The Essential Jung
\i0  \'96 Part 1, Early Work, contains material on his split with Freud.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\i\b \cf0 Your Biography\
\pard\pardeftab709

\f1\i0\b0 \cf0 \
Bostock, C. \'93Synchronicity: A conversation with Robert Hopcke\'94\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\i\b \cf0 Game Objectives\
\pard\pardeftab709

\f1\i0\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab709

\b \cf0 DSM III
\b0 : Oppose any attempt to remove psychoanalytic language from the DSM.\
\

\b Fission
\b0 : Split to the ApsaA\
}