{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid3\'02\'02.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2160\lin2160 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid4\'02\'03.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2880\lin2880 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid102\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid103\'02\'02.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2160\lin2160 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid104\'02\'03.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2880\lin2880 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid202\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid203\'02\'02.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2160\lin2160 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid204\'02\'03.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2880\lin2880 }{\listname ;}\listid3}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sb240\sa120
\ls1\ilvl2
\f0\fs24 \cf0 ### 
\f1\b\fs28 Major Events\
\pard\pardeftab720\li864\fi-864\sb240\sa120
\ls1\ilvl3
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 #### 
\f1\i\b\fs23 Declassification\
\ls1\ilvl3
\f0\i0\b0\fs24 The declassification of homosexuality is assured.  The only characters who argue against it are Bieber and Socarides.  The NY Times obituary of Socarides quotes Gilbert Herdt of National Sexuality Resource Center in San Francisco as saying \'93Socarides outlived his time.\'94 That is roughly correct. While it may not have occurred to many psychiatrists in 1971 that the classification of homosexuality was a problem for the homosexual community, once it was pointed out, the opinion swung: 58% of the population approved in 1973, and there is great embarrassment about that era today. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120
\cf0 As such, the main debate here is about the procedure by which homosexuality will be removed. Green and Marmor will be tempted to just ram it through the board of directors without consulting the population.  That should be avoided.  I've set up the game so that Marmor's original proposal should be remanded to the nomenclature committee, which will report in 1972, requiring a final vote of the membership in 1973.  While the result is not in doubt, without that process, Socarides' rhetoric that the decision was political, not scientific, will be bolstered.\
\pard\pardeftab720\li864\fi-864\sb240\sa120
\ls2\ilvl3\cf0 #### 
\f1\i\b\fs23 DSM-III\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120

\f0\i0\b0\fs24 \cf0 The issue in the DSM-III is not the actual categories, but whether the categories should be based on the etiology or the observable symptoms.  At the same time, the Spitzer taskforce should propose a covering definition of 'mental illness' that will directly challenge the views of Szasz and Albee.  It should fail (it did, in reality). \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li864\fi-864\sb240\sa120
\ls3\ilvl3\cf0 #### 
\f1\i\b\fs23 Fission\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120

\f0\i0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Members of the factions have the option to form splinter associations: the behaviorists found the \'93Society for the Experimental Analysis of Behavior\'94 (actual founding 1957), and found two journals: 
\i Journal of the Experimental Analysis of Behavior
\i0  and 
\i Journal of Applied Behavioral Analysis
\i0 .
\i  
\i0 Psychoanalysts form the American Psychoanalytic Association (actual founding in 1911, but grew rapidly in this era) and the journal 
\i Journal of the American Psychoanalytic Association (JAPA)
\i0 , and the Cognitivists form the Cognitive Science Society (1979) and its associated journals. \
No students are given direct instruction on whether the fission requires withdrawal from the APA. Some, esp. those playing Beiber and Socarides, may feel stronger about the fission than the cognitivists Miller and Chomsky.  This is historically appropriate\'96by the mid-1980s, cognitivism generally dominated the APA.  Contemporary behaviorism has adapted to resemble cognitivism in many ways, by include talk of 'motivations' and of the 'function of behavior' in their explanations.\
}