{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red43\green39\blue19;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\deftab709
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf0 #### Conference Schedule for 1971\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\i0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Presidential Address: Dr. G. Miller \'93The Future of Psychology\'94\
\
Distribution of proposals to be considered this year:\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\li709\sa120
\cf0 * J. Marmor: proposal to remove 'homosexuality' from the DSM-II (302.0)\
* C. Socarides & I. Beiber: proposal to create taskforce on sexual deviation\
\pard\pardeftab709\li709\ri3\sa120
\cf0 * J. Spiegel and/or R. Green: proposal to create task force of historical study and literature review of homosexuality in psychology and psychiatry.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120
\cf0 Symposium \'93Psychiatry: Friend or Foe to Homosexuals: A Dialogue\'94  \
\
\pard\pardeftab709\li709\sa120
\cf0 * Dr. E. Hooker \'93The mental health of non-patient male homosexuals.\'94\
* Dr. H. Anonymous, \'93I am a homosexual and a psychiatrist.\'94\
* F. Kameny and/or B. Gittings \'93Gay, Proud and Healthy\'94*\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab709
\cf0 Papers:\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\li709
\cf0 * Dr. T. Szasz \'93The Myth of Mental Illness\'94\
* Dr. J Marmor \'93Limitations of Free Association\'94\
\pard\pardeftab709
\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\b \cf0 General business meeting agenda:\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\b0 \cf0 \
Committee Reports	\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl0
\f2\fs28 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
<!-- \\begin\{longtable\}[!t]\{ | p\{2cm\} | p\{2cm\} | p\{2cm\} |   \}\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab709\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 \\hline
\f1\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\pardeftab709
\cf0 \
Research&Nomenclature&Conference\\\\ \\hline\
\
Dr. Tyler&\
Dr. Spitzer&\
Dr. Hooker\\\\\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab709\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f2\fs28 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\\caption\{
\f1\i\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Committee Reports
\f2\i0\fs28 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\}\
\\label\{table: committeeReports\}\
\\end\{longtable\}-->
\f1\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120
\cf0 \
Old Business\
\
New Business:\
\
	Discussion:\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\li1418\sa120
\cf0 * Proposal from J. Marmor\
\pard\pardeftab709\li709\sa120
\cf0 	* Proposal from C. Socaridies / I. Beiber\
	* Proposal from G. Albee.\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120
\cf0 Nominations and elections for:\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\li709\sa120
\cf0 * Vice President 1972.\
* Replacement for Milgram, member at large on the Board of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://0594EFFE-13E6-464E-ADA5-4F7DCDC0608C"}}{\fldrslt Directors}}.*\
\
\
}