{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\deftab720
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\fi360\sl288\slmult1

\f0\fs28 \cf0 ### Major Issues in the Game
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs28 \
All psychological theories hold that human action can be predicted based on previous actions of that human.  The way to make those predictions---and the underlying mechanisms posited that explain those actions---separates psychological theories from each other.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs28 \
When I say \'91mechanism\'92, I am using a very specific notion in the Philosophy of science.  A mechanism is an organization of underlying entities which interact with each other to create the phenomenon of interest.  Biologists talk of cell mechanisms, Doctors and Pharmacists of drug actions and mechanisms, Chemists speak of the mechanisms of reactions, etc.  
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs28 \
When one looks at the history of psychological theories, it is not hard to see the metaphorical connections between the psychological mechanisms posited at a certain time, and the most complicated machines available to that society. Psychoanalysis, which was dominants in American Psychiatry from 1890 until 1974, posits an underlying unconscious, which \'91boils\'92 away, providing energy for all observable behavior.  When that behavior is correctly directed with the right set of pressures, it moves the organism forward. When it is not, either the pressure goes out sideways, creating negative behaviors, or it builds towards ultimate \'91explosion\'92 in psychosis.  It is, in short, a steam engine.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs28 \
Behaviorism sought to explain all behavior in terms of stimulus and response, without recourse to \'91internal states\'92 or \'91processes\'92.  Behaviorism\'92s rise which started in 1913 and peaked with the Radical Behaviorism of Skinner in 1958 correspond roughly to the electrification of the United States, as well as the rise of mass media including radio and television.  Electric lights, toasters, radios and TVs are straightforward stimulus-response mechanisms: apply electricity and something happens.  Don\'92t apply electricity and nothing happens.  The wiring is relatively simple, without internal computation or representation. 
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs28 \
On the other hand, once the notion of a \'91computer\'92 with internal working memory (RAM) and permanent storage (hard drives) becomes current, Cognitivism results. Here, the mind is a metaphor of the computer: it takes information in, executes computational functions, and produces 
\f2\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
behavioral output.  Today, we use computer-based nomenclature when talking about the mind all the time: someone might not have the \'91bandwidth\'92 for a new task, the \'91executive function\'92 system might be down, we look for \'91expert systems\'92, or think \'91algorithmically.\'92 \
\

\f0\fs28 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
#### The Central issues\
\
The **
\b main
\b0  issue of debate** in this game is whether or not psychoanalysis is a viable theory of human action. If it is, mental illnesses out to be classified according to the competing psychoactive mechanisms. If it is not, we need to figure out how mental illness should be classified.\
\
The issue of the demedicalization of homosexuality is merely the tip of the iceberg---it  forced psychiatry to address the viability of psychoanalysis and the need for psychological observation of individuals *not* in already in treatment.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl288\slmult1
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 <!-- \\begin\{longtable\}[!t]\{ | P\{7cm\} | P\{2cm\} |  P\{1cm\} | \}
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab720\fi360\sl288\slmult1

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \\hline
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs28 \
\\tahead\{Issue\}&\\tahead\{Partisans\}&\\tahead\{Session\}\\\\ \\hline \\hline
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs28 Homosexuality \\emph\{is / is not\} a mental disorder& \\\\ \\hline
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs28 The \'91medical model\'92 \\emph\{is / is not\} a suitable approach to understanding the human mind& \\\\ \\hline
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs28 Psychoanalysis \\emph\{is / is not\} scientific.& \\\\ \\hline
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs28 Mental disorders should be classified according to \\emph\{observable symptoms / underlying mechanisms\}.& \\\\ \\hline
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs28 Mental illness / mental disorder \\emph\{are / are not\} genuine medical conditions. If so, how do we define a mental illness / disorder?& \\\\ \\hline
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs28 The mentally ill \\emph\{must / should be\} treated exclusively by \\emph\{psychiatrists / psychiatrists\} and \\emph\{psychologists / exclusively psychologists\} & \\\\ \\hline
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs28 What are the ethical limitations on psychological / psychiatric research?& \\\\ \\hline
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs28 What is the proper role of an intellectual---specifically a social scientist---in a democratic society?& \\\\ 
\f3\fs24 \\hline
\f1 \

\f0\fs28 \\caption\{Major Issues for debate\}
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs28 \\label\{table: majorissues\}
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs28 \\end\{longtable\}
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs28 -->}