{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\deftab709
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 #### Victory Objectives\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 The game normally 'ends' with a decisive vote on the definition of 'Mental Illness,' probably in 1975.  There are three basic definitions that ought to be advanced, which are included in table <!--\\ref\{table: definitions\}-->.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl0
\f2\fs28 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
<!-- \\begin\{longtable\}[!t]\{ | p\{2cm\} | p\{12cm\} | \}\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab709\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 \\hline\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\pardeftab709
\cf0 \\textbf\{Advocates\}&\\textbf\{Definition\}\\\\ \\hline\
APA Task Force&A Medical disorder is a relatively distinct condition resulting from an organismic dysfunction which in its fully developed or extreme form is directly and intrinsically associated with distress, disability, or certain other types of disadvantage.  The disadvantage may be of a physical, perceptual, sexual, or interpersonal nature. Implicitly there is a call for action on the part of the person who has the condition, the medical or its allied professions, and society.\
\
A mental disorder is a medical disorder whose manifestations are primarily signs or symptoms of a psychological (behavioral) nature, or if physical, can be understood only using psychological concepts.\\\\ \\hline\
Behaviorists& A person can be called 'mentally ill' when he or she exhibits emotional or behavioral functioning which is so impaired as to interfere substantially with his or her capacity to function in society. \\\\ \\hline\
Psychoanalytic&A person is mentally ill when he or she suffers from internal conflicts that may be subconscious or unconscious, manifesting behavior that is unwanted or disturbing to the individual or the society. \\\\ \\hline\
Szasz&There is no 'thing' called 'mental illness,' only  sets of behaviors that may be destructive to an individual and his or her society. \\\\ \\hline\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120
\cf0  \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\pardeftab709\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f2\fs28 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\\caption\{Factional Definitions of Mental Illness\}\
\\label\{table: definitions\}\
\\end\{longtable\}-->
\f1\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120
\cf0 \
Factional affiliation and objectives vary from individual to individual.\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\i\b \cf0 ##### {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://47CEF6C0-DB33-4C0A-A7F3-7498532C04A0"}}{\fldrslt Credibility Points and Voting}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\i0\b0 \cf0 At the end of each 'conference', each member of the APA must give at least one  'credibility point' to the speaker he or she believes presented the best paper. But they can give more.  Non-members are not required to give their credibility points away, but can choose to do so.   \
\
Any approved research project earns 5 creditability points for its author. Those who jointly propose research projects must decide amoung themselves how to split the credibility points.  They cannot be divided into smaller units (e.g. You can't have a 0.5 credibility)\
\
When it comes time for the final Victory Objective vote\'97on the final definition of mental illness\'97those influence points can be turned into votes.}