{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red246\green245\blue242;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c97255\c96863\c96078;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 ##### The original ideal: Newton\'92s experimentum crucis\
\
The concept of an \'91experiment\'92 in science is actually relatively new. \
\
As you may remember from <!--\\fullref\{prehistoryofpsychology:empiricismaboutthemind\}-->, we attribute the birth of the scientific method to Francis Bacon. His study of heat in the *Novum Organon* established a model of scientific reasoning that had to do with exhaustive observations:\
\
1. Catalog all the instances of the thing (\'93
\f1\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Table of existence and presence\'94, pg XX)\

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
2. Catalog all the instances of things similar to those in (1), but lacking heat (\'93
\f1\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Table of Absence, pg xx\'94)\

\i \

\i0 3. Catalog all the instances of things that do not have heat but could (\'93Table of degrees or comparative instances\'94, pg. XX)\
\
4. Finally, catalog all the instances of things that heat cannot be (Table of exclusions)\
\
Extrapolations...\
\
Newton first started his experiments on light and prisms in the early 1670\'92s, reporting his initial findings to the Royal Society in 1671. [#Newton:1671uw] It is actually his *second* letter on this topic, published in 1672, that is most frequently cited as the primary source. [#Newton:1672tm]. Newton does **not** use the term \'91experiment\'92 in either of these letters. He calls his investigations \'91{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://2ACECFD9-2922-432F-AC58-A292D264A9AD"}}{\fldrslt Queries\'92.}}\
\
There\'92s a sense in which experiments can be seen as finding a way to put a phenomenon in one table or another.  Take the bending of light through a prism. This phenomenon was known long before Newton, and the spreading of \'91white\'92 light into a rainbow was well understood. What was not know was whether the colors of the rainbow were existent in the light and \'91revealed\'92 by the prism, or whether they were in the prism and \'91added\'92 to the white light as it passed through.  In short, is the prism breaking light up, or acting as a colored filter?\
\
Light does one other thing when it passes through a prism: it refracts. The light coming out of a prism does not continue on the same path as it was traveling when it went in---it splits off at a determinate angle corresponding to the color.  Again, this was well known before Newton\'92s experiment. \
\
So here\'92s the first step in Newton\'92s logic: suppose we\'92re following Bacon\'92s method, and we want to know of the angle of refraction and the color of light are the same thing or two different things.  We make a table of all the instances of refraction and light\
\
\
As the angle of refractionf and color are *always* linked, they\
\
\
Newton\'92s *experimentum crucis*, or \'91critical experiment\'92 sought to }