{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red246\green245\blue242;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c97255\c96863\c96078;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa240

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The distinction between long and short term memory seems relatively clear cut. But there are tasks that draw upon both. Take the following memory test. You will see 12 3-letter words presented for one second each. Try to remember as many as you can. You will be asked to repeat this experiment three times.\
\
Was the above test a test of short-term or long-term memory? A whole list of 12 3-letter words exceeds most people's capacity for short-term memory. But many people are able to rehearse the last few words over the time interval between the completion of the list and typing their responses. So for those items one is probably relying on short-term memory. But for the other items, you were using long-term memory.\
Psychologists who have studied people's memory on lists such as these have observed that both the first words and last words on the list tend to be remembered better than those in the middle. They have given different names to these effects:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl480
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The\'a0
\b recency effect
\b0 \'a0is the finding that the last few items in a list are usually better remembered than items in the middle.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The\'a0
\b primacy effect
\b0 \'a0is the finding that the first few items in a list are usually better remembered than items in the middle.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa240
\cf2 \cb3 A common explanation of the primacy effect is that the first items in the list are mentally rehearsed and this results in a stronger trace in long-term memory. Together these two effects give rise to the\'a0
\b learning curve
\b0 , which looks like:\
}