{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red246\green245\blue242;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red109\green109\blue109;\red193\green193\blue193;\red194\green232\blue185;\red0\green0\blue135;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c97255\c96863\c96078;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;
\cssrgb\c50196\c50196\c50196;\cssrgb\c80000\c80000\c80000;\cssrgb\c80000\c92157\c77255;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c60000;}
\deftab720

\itap1\trowd \taflags0 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trcbpat4 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clcbpat3 \clwWidth260\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalb \clcbpat3 \clwWidth100\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw40\brdrcf6 \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalt \clcbpat3 \clwWidth14120\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl340

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl300

\f1\fs24 \cf2 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl440\sa360

\f0\fs36 \cf2 The hypothetico-deductive method\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl480\sa240

\fs24 \cf2 Some have characterized the testing of hypotheses in science as a two-step process. The first step of the argument involves the deduction of a prediction from the hypothesis to be tested. Then, after we see whether the prediction turns out to be true, we can draw conclusions about the truth of the hypothesis. If the prediction turns out to be true, the hypothesis has been confirmed. The argument might run roughly as follows:\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\qc
\cf2 If H, then P.\uc0\u8232 P.\u8232 Therefore H.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl480\sa240
\cf2 If the prediction turns out to be false, the hypothesis has been falsified. The argument might be put roughly as follows:\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\qc
\cf2 If H, then P.\uc0\u8232 Not P.\u8232 Therefore, Not H.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl480\sa240
\cf2 Notice that there is an important difference between these two arguments. The hint is: one of them is inductive, and the other of them is deductive. Can you say which? Click below for the answer.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl340\qc

\fs28 \cf2 \cb7 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa240

\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 The first argument is invalid and the second is valid. Why? In the first case, it is possible for the premises to be true and for the conclusion to nonetheless be false. P might turn out to be true and it may be a deductive consequence of H, but H might still be false. For example, I could argue 'If you are not over 21, you cannot drink beer. I am not drinking beer, therefore, I am not over 21.' The premises are true, but the conclusion false. I am both over 21 and drinking coffee. The argument, therefore, is not truth-preserving and not valid.\
Let us take an example from the history of science: the positions of the planets can very easily be predicted with Ptolemy's 2nd Century geocentric model of the solar system, with Kepler's heliocentric geometrical model, or with Newton's gravitational account. We now know that none of these are technically true descriptions of planetary motion (they all have well-known exceptions or make positively false claims); still each makes a number of true predictions. Each of them can make produce premises like 'If my theory is true, then Venus will rise in the morning and in the evening', and 'Venus rises in the morning and in the evening', but the joining these true premises into an argument can not ensure that the theory is true. In fact, none of them are.\
The first argument is a fallacy known as the "affirming the consequent". The second premise (P) is the second term, or consequent, of the first premise (If H, then P). The argument states the first premise (If H then P) and then affirms its consequent (P), in order to conclude H. Although arguments of this sort superficially resemble truth-preserving arguments like the second deductive argument above, we have seen that it fails to ensure a true the conclusion when the premises are true. We will call these arguments - arguments that superficially resemble deductive arguments but are not truth-preserving - invalid arguments.\
Not so for the second argument. If the hypothesis deductively entails P and P turns out to be false, then something must be wrong with the hypothesis. As we will see, there are typically other ways to shift blame from H onto other aspects of the prediction, but nonetheless you should be able to see this simple logical point now.\
The arguments above embody what is known as the "hypothetico-deductive" model of scientific reasoning. The hypothesis entails a prediction and the prediction is then checked against the world. If the prediction turns out to be true, the hypothesis is confirmed (though\'a0
\i not with certainty
\i0 ). If it turns out to be false, the hypothesis is falsified\'a0
\i with certainty
\i0 . This simple model requires some elaboration before it can be taken as an adequate, if abstract, description of scientific reasoning.\
In order to truly appreciate the power and limitations of the hypothetical-deductive method, we must take a brief sojourn into the basics of argumentation.\
There is one more complexity to the simple hypothetico-deductive method that ought to be mentioned explicitly. Typically, the hypothesis and observed data require additional auxiliary hypotheses to entail the prediction. Suppose that we wanted to test the hypothesis about conservation of momentum. And suppose that we started balls of known momenta at known velocities and then measured their velocities after the collision. In order to know what to predict, we would have to trust our methods for moving the balls at the said velocity, and we would have to trust our techniques for measuring their velocities after the collisions. Our prediction might fail because our instruments aren\'92t working rather than because the hypothesis is wrong. So we need to add explicitly some assumptions about the techniques used to measure a phenomenon.\
These assumptions \'97 for example, that our techniques for measuring velocity are accurate \'97 comprise the\'a0
\i auxiliary hypotheses
\i0 \'a0that inform our prediction. There are always a number of auxiliary hypotheses informing every prediction. In some ways, a given prediction is just one part of a web of hypotheses that come into play in a given theory.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\qc
\cf2 An\'a0
\i auxiliary hypothesis
\i0 \'a0is a hypothesis about the methods, techniques, materials, or instruments used in an experiment that ensures the formulation of a prediction from a hypothesis.\
\
\

\itap1\trowd \taflags0 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trcbpat4 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalb \clcbpat3 \clwWidth100\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw40\brdrcf6 \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat3 \clwWidth14380\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl300

\f1 \cf2 \cb1 \'a0\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl240\qj
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "javascript:%20window.print();"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\fs20 \cf8 \ul \ulc8 \strokec8 Print}}
\f0\fs20 \
Font\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "javascript:%20changefontSize('modBodyText',%20'2');"}}{\fldrslt \cf8 \ul \ulc8 \strokec8 +}}\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "javascript:%20changefontSize('modBodyText',%20'-2');"}}{\fldrslt \cf8 \ul \ulc8 \strokec8 -}}\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl440\sa360

\fs36 \cf2 The fallible character of human knowledge\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl480\sa240

\fs24 \cf2 As the previous module should have convinced you, there is no infallible route to truth in science. In the face of apparently falsifying evidence, a scientist can always propose to reject another assumption or to fault the experimental procedure that produced the evidence. Sometimes it is entirely reasonable for a scientist to simply recognize that a certain bit of evidence does seem to count against his or her hypothesis, and leave the problem for future generations. Moreover, a highly confirmed theory supported by many correct predictions can eventually be rejected as either new evidence arises which falsifies them or as new alternative plausible hypotheses emerge that equally explain the same phenomena.\
One response to realizing that science is not so clear cut is skepticism \'97 deny that we can never know the truth about the world and give up the quest to try to know. This response, however, seems extreme given the manifest success of science in revealing a great deal about the operation of the world. Even if some of what scientists claim to know now turns out to be false, it is highly unlikely that all the claims of modern science will turn out to be radically mistaken. A more plausible response is\'a0
\i fallibilism
\i0 . This recognizes that any of the claims to knowledge at a time might later be withdrawn as counter evidence or better hypotheses are developed, but also that overall the hypotheses of today are a major advance of those of a previous era. To gain an appreciation for the fallible character of science, consider two examples from the history of science, one of a theory that seemed well ensconced until it tumbled quickly at the end of the 18th century, and another which experienced ups and downs over two centuries before finally giving way.\cell \lastrow\row
}