{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana-Bold;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red246\green245\blue242;\red0\green0\blue135;
\red133\green0\blue2;\red109\green109\blue109;\red193\green193\blue193;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c97255\c96863\c96078;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c60000;
\cssrgb\c60000\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c50196\c50196\c50196;\cssrgb\c80000\c80000\c80000;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa240

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 We acquire knowledge of the world primarily through our senses. As humans, we rely most heavily, but clearly not exclusively, on vision. Seeing the world seems very straight-forward. We open our eyes and the world impresses itself upon our consciousness. But, as we will see, it is more complex than it seems at first. Our ability to see is, in part, learned. One aspect of 'successful' seeing is the ability to recognize things when one encounters them again. Recognition requires the ability to categorize. Seeing, in this robust sense, also implies the ability to organize the categories into a taxonomy or classification system.\
Although much scientific research goes beyond mere observation to posit causal processes and mechanisms behind what is observed, observational research plays a vital role in the development of scientific knowledge\'97 both in delineating the phenomenon of study and in validating hypothesis and predictions. When conducting\'a0observational research, the question of how we organize\'a0observations\'a0into categories, as well as how we organize categories into\'a0taxonomies, plays a central role. In addition, we must pay careful attention to the notion of a 'variable', and how we measure and estimate the values of variables. In this module, we focus on issues of this sort:\
#### Observation research\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa240

\b \cf2 ##### Margaret Mead\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa360

\b0\fs36 \cf2 Margaret mead under scrutiny\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa240

\i\fs24 \cf2 Coming of Age in Samoa
\i0 \'a0came under intense scrutiny after a half-century as an anthropological classic. In books published in 1983 and 1998, Derek Freeman charged that Mead\'92s work suffered from too many biasing preconceptions, too much gullibility, and too little data. He went so far as to re-interview some of the same individuals, now at the other end of their lives, and reported an important recantation. Though Mead had many defenders, the damage to her reputation sent a message to ambitious young anthropologists that accurate and thorough observation is the bedrock upon which even the cleverest accounts must stand. That is, they must become skilled ethnographers.*\
*Ethnographers seek to describe and understand each culture from its own perspective, using techniques that emphasize naturalistic settings, the meaning and context of activities and practices, and qualitative analysis. Such techniques as participant observation and in-depth interviews yield detailed records (written field-notes, audio and video recordings, etc.) that must be distilled and interpreted to obtain a usable account of the culture or some aspect of the culture. Today these techniques are increasingly being applied to the study of microcultures within the ethnologist\'92s own culture. For example, Bonnie Nardi moved from studying the culture of Samoa as an outsider to studying corporate microcultures in Silicon Valley as more of an insider. She informally discusses her work at\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://argus-acia.com/people/current_profile.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 http://argus-acia.com/people/current_profile.html}}.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa240

\b \cf2 \
##### Roger Brown
\b0 \
Roger Brown and his research team at Harvard University in the 1960s visited the homes of \'93Adam,\'94 \'93Eve,\'94 and \'93Sarah\'94 every two weeks during the period they were first acquiring English. The team audiotaped and transcribed everything the children and their mothers said, resulting in three\'a0
\i corpora
\i0 \'a0of such high quality that they are still in use. (Although teenagers talk somewhat differently today than in the 1960s, 2-year-olds then and now talk about juice, dogs, hats, more, allgone, etc.) Especially in the earliest stages, children omit a lot and parents sometimes fill in what is missing. Here is one of Brown\'92s examples:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\qc
\cf2 Child: Throw Daddy\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Mother: Throw it to Daddy\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa240
\cf2 The grammars that Brown\'92s group wrote to account for such simplified language were far more complex than you might imagine. Even more intriguing, though, were child utterances that had to be changed, not just expanded, to get an adult utterance. For example:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\qc
\cf2 Child: What John will read?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Mother: What will John read?\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa240
\cf2 Superficially the child just mixed up the word order a bit, but Brown\'92s group proposed a much deeper analysis in terms of Chomsky\'92s generative grammar, which at the time, was a new and controversial approach to linguistics.\

\itap1\trowd \taflags0 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trcbpat3 \trwWidth11000\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clmgf \clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth10720\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt100 \clpadl100 \clpadb100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx4320
\clmrg \clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth10720\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt100 \clpadl100 \clpadb100 \clpadr100 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl960\sa320

\f1\b\fs32 \cf5 \cb1 \strokec5 Observation\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl480\sa240

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl280

\f2 \cf2 Brown\'92s child subjects produced sentences like \'93What John will read?\'94 and \'93Why kitty can\'92t stand up?\'94.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240
\cf2 \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl960\sa320

\f1\b\fs32 \cf5 \strokec5 Chomsky
\f3 \'92
\f1 s theory\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl480\sa240

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 The earliest versions of generative grammar emphasized the idea (adapted from Chomsky\'92s mentor, Zellig Harris) that a sentence should be viewed as the product of a series of transformations. The following sequence leaves out Chomsky\'92s linguistic symbols but gets across the general idea:\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\qc
\cf2 John will read what? BASE QUESTION (atypical word order for a question)\uc0\u8232 What John will read? PREPOSING TRANSFORMATION: moves wh-word (
\i what
\i0 ) to the front.\'a0\uc0\u8232 What will John read? TRANSPOSING TRANSFORMATION: reverses the subject (
\i John
\i0 ) and the auxiliary verb (
\i will
\i0 ).\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl480\sa240
\cf2 The final form in the sequence is what an adult would typically say. The transformations and the intermediate form are not directly observed, but Chomsky claimed that they can be inferred and are part of the speaker\'92s linguistic competence.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl960\sa320

\f1\b\fs32 \cf5 \strokec5 Brown
\f3 \'92
\f1 s use of Chomsky
\f3 \'92
\f1 s theory to analyze the observation\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl480\sa240

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 Brown and his colleagues suggested that the child was in the process of acquiring transformations, and at this point (about 3 years of age) had acquired preposing but not transposing. As a result, the \'93hypothetical intermediate\'94 became an actual, observed form. Not only did this give a neat explanation of what the child said, but in the other direction it lent support to Chomsky\'92s theory.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\qc
\cf2 Sources: Brown, R. (1968). The development of wh questions in child speech.\'a0
\i Journal of Verbal Learning and Verbal Behavior
\i0 , 7, 277-290.\'a0\uc0\u8232 Brown, R. (1970).\'a0
\i Psycholinguistics
\i0 . NY: The Free Press.\uc0\u8232 Chomsky, N.\'a0
\i Syntactic Structures
\i0 . The Hague: Mouton. Chomsky, N. (1964). Aspects of the Theory of Syntax. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.\'a0\uc0\u8232 Peccei, J. S. (1994),\'a0
\i Child Language
\i0 . London: Routledge.\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\li100\ri100\sl300\sa100\qc
\cf2 \cb7 For more on child language corpora,\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.inquirytext.org/newFrames/otherModule.php?mod_id=518"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 click here.}}\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl280

\f2 \cf2 \cb1 \
\
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl340

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl960\sa320

\f1\b\fs32 \cf5 \strokec5 What all observational research has in common\
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl480
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Observational researchers always observe some type of phenomena. (obviously)\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Observational researchers make some sort of record and analyze data obtained from it.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Observational researchers do not manipulate variables.\cb1 \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl960\sa320

\f1\b\fs32 \cf5 \cb3 \strokec5 Reasons to do observational research\
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl480
\ls2\ilvl0
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Description (atheoretical research): To obtain a general characterization of the behavior of a particular individual or group in a specified domain and setting.\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Exploratory research (pretheoretical research): To develop hypotheses and/or tentative theories. The researcher obtains a characterization of behavior, but with the goal not only of description but also of explanation.\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Confirmation or falsification (theoretical research): To test hypotheses \'97 which may come directly from exploratory research or have a more complex history. For example, a tested hypothesis may be obtained by revising a hypothesis that was suggested by exploratory research but failed to be confirmed. (Note: If the hypothesis concerns a causal claim, observation alone will not provide strong test; if possible, an experiment should be done.)\cb1 \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl960\sa320

\f1\b\fs32 \cf5 \cb3 \strokec5 Two types of observational research\
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl480
\ls3\ilvl0
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Naturalistic observation: unobtrusive, passive observation in a natural environment. It is important to minimize any impact of observer bias. For examples, the observers may be research assistants who are blind to the goals of the study.\cb1 \
\ls3\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Participant observation: the observer interacts with those being observed, typically within a natural environment or context. It is important to minimize reactivity \'97 that is, the influence of the observer's presence on the behavior of those being observed. For example, a participant observer can seek to achieve some degree of unobtrusiveness and passivity by avoiding leadership roles and making written records when out of sight.
\b \cb1 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\sl960\sa320

\f1\fs32 \cf5 \cb3 \strokec5 Risks in observational research\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa240

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 Two of the major risks of observational research are observer bias and reactivity.\
As we noted earlier in this module, when an individual expects something to happen, she is more likely to notice it. This gives rise to what is known as\'a0
\i observer bias
\i0 . A classic example is provided by a study of college students observing flatworm behavior by Cordaro and Ison (1963). Student observers were to record how many head turns and body contractions were made by two groups of flatworms. Although there were no differences between the two groups, the observers were led to believe group A would have higher rates of both turning over and contracting than group B. The observers ended up recording twice as many head turns and three times as many body contractions for group A. Since there was no reason to expect a large difference in the actual behaviors, the results appear to be due to the expectations of the observers. Such biasing is typically not deliberate \'97 the observers may be trying to honestly report what they observer, but processes unknown to them are influencing their behavior.\
Although observer bias cannot typically be eliminated, it can be moderated. One strategy is to use observers who have not been influenced by the expectation. Such observers are characterized as\'a0
\i blind
\i0 . Observers are said to be blind when they do not know why the observations are being performed or any hypotheses being entertained. A second strategy is to employ multiple observers and evaluating the agreement between them. If observers are influenced by expectations to see more examples of particular behaviors in one group than in another, they are nonetheless likely to differ in which additional cases they detect or which they miss.\
}