{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red246\green245\blue242;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c97255\c96863\c96078;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;
\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa240

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 One way to explain why something happens is to demonstrate a cause for it. But causes typically do not operate in isolation. Encountering a virus may explain why you developed the flu, but the condition of having the flu only arises when a number of other things happen. In particular, a virus must invade a particular cell (flu viruses invade cells lining a person\'92s respiratory or digestive track). Basically, what the virus does is to take over the cell\'92s resources to make more virus particles (more copies of its DNA and a protein coat). Once it has done so, these new viruses seek new cells to invade, and the cycle repeats.\
Except for the fact that some viruses break out of their generous hosts by breaking the host cell open and killing it, this all sounds harmless enough. But the consequences are what debilitate you:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl480
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 When the cells lining the respiratory track are killed, fluid can flow into your nasal passages; this is what you experience as a runny nose.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 This nasal fluid contains more viruses and as they drip down your throat they attack the cells lining it. You experience this as a sore throat.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 The virus particles that get into your bloodstream attack muscle cells, which you experience as muscle ache.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 Finally, you body is designed to resist this assault. One thing it does is produce pyrogens, chemicals that cause your body temperature to increase. The higher temperature reduces the capacity of cells to carry out their operations, including hosting the creation of new viruses.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa240
\cf0 \cb2 Although it was the virus that caused the flu, a lot of other operations were going on. The virus had to rely on a complex bit of machinery to carry out its task of reproducing itself, and in the process laying you low with the flu.\
The explanatory scenario just outlined, in which we invoke a mechanism to explain a causal effect, is extremely common in science.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl480
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 To explain the reproduction of cells, scientists describe the mechanism of cell reproduction.\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 To explain how blood carries nutrients to tissues in the body, they describe the mechanism of circulation of the blood.\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 To explain how people can remember events in their lives and new factual information, they describe the mechanisms of memory encoding, storage, and retrieval.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa240
\cf0 \cb2 Explaining the occurrence of a phenomenon by identifying the mechanism that produces it is perhaps the most common explanatory strategy in science. Accordingly, we need to consider in detail\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl480
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 what a mechanism is\cb1 \
\ls3\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 how mechanisms are described\cb1 \
\ls3\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 how mechanisms are discovered\cb1 \
\ls3\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 how mechanisms are modeled\cb1 \
\ls3\ilvl0\cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 how accounts of mechanism are tested.\cb1 \
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 \
\ls3\ilvl0
\f1\fs85\fsmilli42667 \outl0\strokewidth0 Mechanism: entities and activities organized so that a phenomenon occurs.\
\ls3\ilvl0
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl980\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0
\fs85\fsmilli42667 \cf0 Entities and activities organized in such a way as to realize a function.
\fs24 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl480
\ls3\ilvl0
\f0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 \
}