{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldItalicMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-ItalicMT;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f4\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT;\f5\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
\f6\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f7\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue10;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c3922;}
\deftab709
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf0 ## Frank Kameny and/or Barbara Gittings, Activists\
\

\f1\b0 Starting Credibility: 0
\f0\b \
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f2\i0 \cf0 ### Frank Kameny Biography\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 You were born in Queens, New York to a middle class Jewish family. Your first academic interest was in science, and by the age of seven, you pledged your commitment in becoming an astronomer. You began your undergraduate degree in physics at Queens College, but you were interrupted by WWII, where you served as an Army Mortar crewman in Europe. Your mother described you as excessively shy, but your time spent abroad during WWII brought you out of your shell. You returned from the war, finished your undergraduate degree, and went on to receive your PhD in physics from Harvard University in 1956 after being awarded a scholarship.\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\fi-283\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 You have a dominating personality that is a cross between egotism and revolutionary. You have a habit of questioning the status quo and supporting your own conceptions. When you were a teenager, you proclaimed yourself an atheist to your parents. This attitude continued into your teaching fellow years at Harvard where you refused to sign a loyalty oath without attaching qualifiers, stating, \'93If society and I differ on something, I am willing to give the matter a second look\'85If we still differ, than I am right and society is {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://A1D735C4-03D3-4CB7-8F77-4C51170CCFE1"}}{\fldrslt wrong.\'94}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Kameny was not so much concerned with changing society in so much as he refused to let society effect his own life. You avoided the exploration of your sexuality, and were therefore unsure of your orientation. You preferred spending your time in observatories. While finishing your dissertation in Arizona, you became friendly with a group of homosexuals and attended a gay bar, to which you stated, \'93I\'92ve come home\'94. You took full advantage of your sexual revelation, and spent the near future making up for lost time.\
\
After receiving your doctorate, you worked as teaching assistant for the astronomy department at Georgetown University, before transferring to the Army Map Service in the heat of the Cold War. During this phase of life, you helped the army more accurately target their nuclear weapons by using points around the U.S to calculate the distance towards targets around the world. In 1957, Army security officials questioned your sexuality, to which you responded by asserting that your personal life was not the business of the federal government. You were immediately dismissed, leaving you jobless and dependent upon charity during the dawn of the space race; a time that should have been the greatest opportunity of your life. The Federal government\'92s position was that homosexuality made a person unsuitable for federal employment. You had been dismissed just as hundreds had been before you, but you became the first to ever officially challenge this policy. Initially, legal efforts failed, and even your lawyer determined it best to abandon the case. You pressed on, outlining a case in which you argued that the discrimination you experienced was no less illegal and no less odious than discrimination based upon religious or racial grounds. After citing the Kinsey report, you presented reasonable grounds to believe that 15 million U.S citizens were gay and subject to the same persecution.\
\
When the Supreme Court refused to hear the case once more, you moved to create a movement by founding the Mattachine Society of Washington, which was named after a group of medieval court jesters who were allowed to articulate unpopular truths under the secrecy of masks. The Mattachine Society of Washington was one of the first homosexual organizations to act under the mission of political activism, and focus its efforts on public awareness; its mission: \'93to act by any lawful means to secure for homosexuals the right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness\'94. Your influence stemmed heavily from surveying the black civil rights movement, and you eventually shifted homosexuality from a mental health issue to a civil liberties issue. You argued that your opposition was basing its arguments on emotion rather than reason, which prevented the pursuit of education and awareness. You claimed that homosexuals were more likely to have an employment issue than they were a mental health issue due to their sexual orientation.\
\
You enacted a civil rights militancy strategy, taking to the streets, media, and the courts. Although your movement was legally focused, you understood that homosexuality\'92s classification as an illness was the main obstacle to overcome. You used your background in the sciences to demonstrate that the current view of homosexual psychology was based on psychiatric observations made on behalf of mental patients only, thus ignoring the millions of healthy gay Americans spread throughout the country. Your organization was the first that claimed homosexuality to be, \'93a preference, orientation, or propensity, on par with, and not different in kind from, heterosexuality\'94. However, negative stigmas for homosexuality existed in propensity, thus counteracting the logic of your claims. You modeled a slogan after the African American movement\'92s, \'93Black is Beautiful\'94, thus coining the phrase, \'93Gay is Good\'94. America loves slogans, and the country\'92s \'93gut\'94 began to shift into your corner. Today you are considered a pioneer in the homosexual civil rights movements, and cited as one of its most important figures.\
\
When the Department of Defense launched an investigation into the sexuality of a young man named Benning Wentworth in 1969, you took the opportunity to testify. Charles Socarides was an expert witness for the prosecution. Your speech, \'93We Throw Down the Gauntlet\'94 is not a classic in the gay rights movement. It is available here: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.kamenypapers.org/gauntlet.htm"}}{\fldrslt http://www.kamenypapers.org/gauntlet.htm}}.\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 ### Game Objectives\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 You are the leader of the Gay-PA. After the Stonewall protests of 1969, you've become committed to the idea that street-level protests and direct nonviolent confrontation ('Zaps') are the most effective mechanisms of social change. You organized the San Francisco protests of 1970, and you have some ideas for 1971 and 1972.\
\
The Gay-PA (in reality, the Chicago branch of the Gay Liberation Front) should issue something like following proclamation at the beginning of the conference in 1971 (distribute it as you see fit \'96 i.e. post it to the door of the room, hand it out as players enter, etc.). It is vital that the draft is approved by the other members of the Gay-PA (Fryer, Hooker, Gold), and you should consult the secret 'young turks' (Marmor, Spiegel):\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 > The establishment school of psychiatry is based on the premise that people who are hurting should solve their problems by \'93adjusting\'94 to the situation. For the homosexual, this means becoming adept at straight-fronting, learning how to survive in a hostile world, how to settle for housing in the gay ghetto, how to be satisfied with a profession in which homosexuals are tolerated, and how to live with low self-esteem.\
\
> The adjustment school places the burden on each individual homosexual to learn to bear his torment. But the \'93problem\'94 of homosexuality is never solved under this scheme; the anti-homosexualist attitude of society, which is the cause of the homosexual's trouble, goes unchallenged. And there's always another paying patient on the psychiatrist's couch.\
\
> Dr. Socarides claims, \'93A human being is sick when he fails to function in his appropriate gender identity, which is appropriate to his anatomy.\'94 Who determines \'93appropriateness\'94? The psychiatrist as moralist? Certainly there is no scientific basis for defining \'93appropriate\'94 sexual behavior.... Other than invoking moral standards, Dr. Socarides claims that homosexuality is an emotional illness because of the guilt and anxieties in homosexual life. Would he als consider Judaism an emotional illness because of the paranoia which Jews experienced in Nazi Germany?\
\
> We homosexuals of gay liberation believe that the adjustment school of therapy is not a valid approach to society.\
\
> We refuse to adjust to our oppression, and believe that the key to our mental health, and to the mental health of all oppressed peoples in a racist, sexist, capitalist society, is a radical change in the structure and accompanying attitudes of the entire social system.\
\
> Mental health for women does not mean therapy for women\'97it means the elimination of male supremacy. Not therapy for blacks, but an end to racism. The poor don't need psychiatrists (what a joke at 25 bucks a throw!)--they need democratic distribution of wealth. OFF THE COUCHES, INTO THE STREETS!\
\
> We see political organizing and collective action as the strategy for effecting this social change. We declare that we are healthy homosexuals in a sexist society, and that homosexuality is at least on part with heterosexuality as a way for people to relate to each (know any men that don't dominate women?).\
\
> Since the prevalent notion in society is that homosexuality is wrong, all those who recognize that this attitude is damaging to people, and that it must be corrected, have to raise their voices in opposition to antihomosexualism. Not to do so is to permit the myth of homosexual pathology to continue and to comply in the homosexual's continued suffering from senseless stigmatization... We furthermore urge psychiatrists to refer to the homosexual patients to gay liberation (and other patients who are the victims of oppression to relevant liberation movements). Once relieved of patients whose guilt is not deserved but imposed, psychiatrists will be able to devote all their efforts to the rich\'97who do earn their guilt but not their wealth, and can best afford to pay psychiatrists'' fees.\
\
> We are convinced that a picket and a dance will do more for the vast majority of homosexuals that two years on the couch. We call on the medical profession to repudiate the adjustment approach as a solution to homosexual oppression and instead to further homosexual liberation by working in a variety of political ways (re-educating the public, supporting pickets, attending rallies, promoting social events, etc.) to change the situation of homosexuals in this society.\
\
> Join us in the struggle for a world in which all humans are free to love without fear or shame.\
\
> (quoted in Rosario, 2002)\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
As a non-member of the APA, you cannot vote on the 
\f4\b definition of mental illness
\f3\b0 . But be sure to advocate for one that does not penalize or marginalize those with harmless social differences.\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b \cf0 #### Specific Assignments\
\
**Initial Committee Membership**\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f5\i0\b0\fs22 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Not a member of the APA, so not eligible for committee memberships\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
##### Demedicalization\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f3\i0\b0 \cf0 Participate in the 1971 panel discussion with John Fryer and Evelyn Hooker. The texts of Kameny and Gitting's actual speeches are not recorded (to my knowledge). Eyewitnesses record that Kameny was more confrontational and antagonistic to psychiatry while Gittings was more conciliatory. Kameny is quoted as arguing that \'93We're rejecting you all as our owners. We possess ourselves and we speak for ourselves and we will take care of our destines.\'94 (Quoted in Bayer, 2002 p. 106).\
\
\
Petition the conference committee for a display booth for 1972 titled 'Gay, Proud and Healthy', get Fryer and others to sit at the booth and take questions. As a student, if you are interested, there are photos of the actual booth available at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://digitalgallery.nypl.org/nypldigital/id?1606166"}}{\fldrslt http://digitalgallery.nypl.org/nypldigital/id?1606166}}. You should distribute a pamplet as well (the Kameny papers archive has a copy of the original, for inspiration).\
\
You should maintain 'zapping' events where you determine discrimination, or the intellectual basis for discrimination, occur.\
\
\
##### Research\
\
Help Gold organize a symposium in 1973 on the topic of \'93
\f6 Should Homosexuality Be in the APA Nomenclature?\'94 Green, Marmor, Bieber, Socarides and Spitzer should speak.
\f3 \
\
##### Association Business / DSM-III\
\
`\\begin\{
\f5\fs22 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
writingtask\}[Kameny]\\label\{writingtask:kameny\}\

\f3\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Give a paper during the 1971 panel discussion, preliminarily titled \'93Gay, Proud and Healthy\'94 with Barbara Gittings, John Fryer and Evelyn Hooker. 
\f5\fs22 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\\end\{writingtask\}`\{=latex\}
\f3\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
Indeterminate\
\
##### Social responsibilities of social scientists\
\
Indeterminate\
\
##### Definition of \'91mental illness\'92 and fission of the APA\
\
Indeterminate\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f6 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 ### Must Read\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 Read the legal and personal documents of Frank Kameny at `\\url\{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.kamenypapers.org/index.htm"}}{\fldrslt http://www.kamenypapers.org/index.htm}}\}`\{=latex\}\
\
Read the story of the 1971 APA in DC: `\\url\{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.rainbowhistory.org/html/apazap.htm"}}{\fldrslt http://www.rainbowhistory.org/html/apazap.htm}}\}`\{=latex\}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b \cf0 #### Secondary Sources\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\partightenfactor0

\f3\i0\b0 \cf0  Shea, Christopher D. "Before Stonewall: Activists for Gay and Lesbian Rights in Historical Context."
\f7\i  Archives of Sexual Behavior
\f3\i0  36.2 (2007): 209-15. Print.\
Glbtq.com, \'93Gittings, Barbara (1932-2007)\'94 `\\url\{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.glbtq.com/social-sciences/gittings_b.html"}}{\fldrslt http://www.glbtq.com/social-sciences/gittings_b.html}}\}`\{=latex\}\
\
Bullough, Vern, ed. (2002)
\f7\i  Before Stonewall: Activists for gay and lesbian rights in historical context
\f3\i0 . Harrington Park Press.\cf2  See esp. Ch 36 & 39, a biographies of Kameny & Gittings written by Gittings' partner, Kay Tobin Lahusen\
\cf0 \
Gallo, Marcia. (2006).
\f7\i  Different Daughters: A History of the Daughters of Bilitis and the Rise of the Lesbian Rights Movement
\f3\i0 . Carrol & Graf Publishers.\
\
Katz, Jonathan. (1976)
\f7\i  Gay American History: Lesbians and Gay Men in the U.S.A
\f3\i0 . Crowell.\
\
Marcus, Eric. (2002)
\f7\i  Making Gay History: The half-century fight for lesbian and gay equal rights.
\f3\i0  Perennial Press.\
\
Moran, M. (2006) \'93Activists Forced Psychiatsts to Look Behind Closet Door\'94
\f7\i  Psychiatric News
\f3\i0 , 41 (21) p. 17\
\
Tobin, Kay and Wicker, Randy. (1975)
\f7\i  The Gay Crusaders
\f3\i0 . Arno Press.\
}