{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 ##### Little Albert\
\
Contrary to most textbooks that repeat the myth that 'Little Albert' was successfully deconditioned by Watson and was adopted by a family in North Baltimore and went on to live a long, happy, normal life, there is recent evidence to suggest that Little Albert died as a child. \
\
Using photographs from the family and FBI forensics experts, Beck et al. (2009) argue  that 'Little Albert' was likely Douglas Merritte, who died at age 6 of acquired hydrocephalus after his mother had left Hopkins.  Watson never deconditioned Little Albert, and we simply have no evidence to determine if his conditioned fears remained until his death.  [#Beck:wk]\
\
The authors conclude:\
\
> None of the folktales we encountered during our inquiry had a factual basis. There is no evidence that the baby's mother was 'outraged\'82' at her son's treatment or that Douglas's phobia proved resistant to extinction. Douglas was never deconditioned, and he was not adopted by a family north of Baltimore.\
\
> Nor was he ever an old man. Our search of seven years was longer than the little boy's life. I laid flowers on the grave of my longtime 'companion' turned, and simultaneously felt a great peace and profound loneliness. [#Beck:wk]\
\
The APA's Monitor carried the story January 2010 ([#LittleAlbertrega:2010ig])\
\
There were a number of blog posts that followed, including: `\\url\{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://mindhacks.com/2009/10/22/little-albert-lost-and-found"}}{\fldrslt http://mindhacks.com/2009/10/22/little-albert-lost-and-found}}\}`\{=latex\}. And a BBC special: `\\url\{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KJnJ1Q8PAJk"}}{\fldrslt https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KJnJ1Q8PAJk}}\}`\{=latex\}\
\
In 2012, however, a study by Nancy Digdon and Russell Powell called Beck\'92s findings into doubt.  He found that there was another child at Hopkins at the time named William Albert Barger who fits the description of Little Albert---and he went on to have a normal adult {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://51B53E17-C311-4259-BB19-E4890CE5B7AE"}}{\fldrslt life.}} [#Powell:vw]\
}