{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid3\'02\'02.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2160\lin2160 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid102\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid103\'02\'02.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2160\lin2160 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sb240\sa120
\ls1\ilvl2
\f0\fs24 \cf0  	
\f1\b\fs28 The DSM-V Controversy\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 These were collected in 2009. The issue is ongoing.\
NIMH Rejection: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.newyorker.com/online/blogs/elements/2013/05/the-new-criteria-for-mental-disorders.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc0 http://www.newyorker.com/online/blogs/elements/2013/05/the-new-criteria-for-mental-disorders.html}} \
\
The D.S.M. And the Nature of Disease\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.newyorker.com/online/blogs/elements/2013/04/the-dsm-and-the-nature-of-disease.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc0 http://www.newyorker.com/online/blogs/elements/2013/04/the-dsm-and-the-nature-of-disease.html}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li283
\cf0 (2009). "What Should Count as a Mental Disorder in DSM-V? - Psychiatric Times." from {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.psychiatrictimes.com/display/article/10168/1402032"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc0 http://www.psychiatrictimes.com/display/article/10168/1402032}}.\
Andrews, G. (2009). \ul \ulc0 Stress-induced and fear circuitry disorders : advancing the research agenda for DSM-V\ulnone . Washington, DC, American Psychiatric Pub.\
Beach, S. R. H. (2006). \ul Relational processes and DSM-V : neuroscience, assessment, prevention, and intervention\ulnone . Washington, DC, American Psychiatric Pub.\
Kal, E. F. (2008). "DSM-V Compromise Proposed." \ul Psychiatr News\ulnone  
\b 43
\b0 (21): 23-a-23-a.\
O'Donohue, W. T., K. A. Fowler, et al. (2007). \ul Personality disorders : toward the DSM-V\ulnone . Los Angeles, SAGE Publications.\
Porcelli, P. and N. Sonino (2007). \ul Psychological factors affecting medical conditions : a new classification for DSM-V\ulnone . Basel ; New York, Karger.\
Saunders, J. B. and American Psychiatric Association. (2007). \ul Diagnostic issues in substance use disorders : refining the research agenda for DSM-V\ulnone . Arlington, VA, American Psychiatric Association.\
Spitzer, R. L. (2008). "DSM-V: Open and Transparent?" \ul Psychiatr News\ulnone  
\b 43
\b0 (14): 26-26.\
Sunderland, T. and American Psychiatric Association. (2007). \ul Diagnostic issues in dementia : advancing the research agenda for DSM-V\ulnone . Arlington, VA, American Psychiatric Association.\
Widiger, T. A. (2006). \ul Dimensional models of personality disorders : refining the research agenda for DSM-V\ulnone . Washington, D.C., American Psychiatric Association.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sb240\sa120
\ls2\ilvl2\cf0  	
\f1\b\fs28 Contemporary \'96 Spitzer 2003 Controversy\
\pard\pardeftab720\li283

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Epstein, R. (2003). "Am I Anti-Gay? You be the judge. A letter form the editor in chief.\'a0  ." \ul Psychology Today\ulnone  
\b Jan/Feb
\b0 .\
Hausman, K. (2001). "Furor Erupts Over Study On Sexual Orientation." \ul Psychiatr News\ulnone  
\b 36
\b0 (13): 20-34.\
Nicolosi, J. (2007, 4/30/2007). "Why I Am Not a Neutral Therapist." Retrieved 10/24/2008, from {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.narth.com/docs/notneutral.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul http://www.narth.com/docs/notneutral.html}}.\
Nicolosi, J. (2008). "The Meaning of Same-Sex Attraction." 10/24/2008, from {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.narth.com/docs/niconew.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul http://www.narth.com/docs/niconew.html}}.\
Satinover, J. (?). "The "Trojan Couch": How the Mental Health Associations Misrepresent Science." \ul National Association for Research and Theraphy of Homosexuality\ulnone . Retrieved 10/24, 2008, from http:/{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.narth.com/docs/TheTrojanCouchSatinover.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul www.narth.com/docs/TheTrojanCouchSatinover.pdf}}.\
Spitzer, R. (2003). "Can some gay men and lesbians change their sexual orientation? 200 participants reporting a change from homosexual to heterosexual orientation." \ul Archives of Sexual Behavior\ulnone  
\b 32
\b0 (5): 403-417.\
Zucker, K. and J. Drescher, Eds. (2006). \ul Ex-Gay Research: Analyzing the Spitzer Study and Its Relation to Science, Religion, Politics, and Culture\ulnone . New York, Routledge.\
}