{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldItalicMT;\f2\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\li90\ri90\sb90\sa90\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs20 \cf0 `\\newpage`\{=latex\}
\f1\i\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 #### Mental rotation of three-dimensional objects\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f2\i0 \cf0 ##### Background
\f3\b0 : \
\
Mentally rotating 3-dimensional objects is one indicator of spatial reasoning in humans. And it is one that is tempting to explain in terms of internal mental imagery. The 'cognitive hypothesis' holds that in order to solve mental rotation problems, a cognitive representation of the presented object must be rotated in the mind before an identification can be made - and it is that hypothesis that we wish to test here.\
\

\f2\b ##### Rationale:
\f3\b0  \
\
When asked to match three-dimensional objects presented in two-dimensional format, individuals report imagining the object in three-dimensions and rotating them mentally to test against the other possibilities. Introspective reports are, of course, notoriously difficult to address in a scientific way, but that does not mean that we cannot study the phenomenon. If individuals are manipulating mental representations, we would expect a measurable difference in reaction time given a matching task.\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf0 ##### Experimental Design
\f3\b0 : \
\
A number of adult subjects (the size of the class) will presented with pairs of two-dimensional line drawings of three-dimensional blocks. Each subject will be asked to indicate as quickly as possible if the two were drawings of the same object rotated in space or different objects. Half of the experimental set will be rotated versions of the same object, the other half not. They will be presented to the subjects in random order. The time it takes to respond will be measured using computer software. We hypothesize that the amount of time necessary to respond will be correlated with the angle of rotation of the two objects, thus establishing the cognitive hypothesis.\
\
The materials are available on the APA website: `<{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://opl.apa.org/Experiments/About/AboutMentalRotation.aspx"}}{\fldrslt http://opl.apa.org/Experiments/About/AboutMentalRotation.aspx}}> Your gamemaster will need to set up an account here: <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://opl.apa.org/Main.aspx"}}{\fldrslt http://opl.apa.org/Main.aspx}}>.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf0 ##### Significance and Contribution\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0 \cf0 \
This research has the potential to discover observable data that is consistent with the introspective reports of individuals.  \
}