{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;\f2\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red135\green135\blue135;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c60000\c60000\c60000;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 ### Setting the stage for 1971
\f1\b0\fs24 \

\f0\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs24 \cf0 In 1961, Thomas Langer and Stanley Michael conducted 2-hour interviews with 1,660 individuals chosen at random from the streets of Manhattan. This was the first wide-scale study of the psychology of people *not already* seeking treatment for psychological trouble.  Their findings are quite simple: socio-economic status and age are able to explain most of an individual's mental health---not internal conflicts or unconscious trauma.\
\
 The study was revolutionary. S. H. Kranes of the University of Chicago said in her review of the book: "[this study] is a pioneer in obtaining 'objective' information.  Psychiatry is too prone to the philosophical rather than the factual." ([p. 464][#Kraines:1964fy])
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs24 \cf0 Since the origin of psychiatry, there has been a distinction made between those disorders that can be directly attributable to a biological dysfunction of the brain and those that cannot. The former were classified as 'neurological,' and the latter 'psychiatric.'  The inability to find a biological etiology of the disorder *defines* the domain of psychiatry. So what happens now that biological mechanisms stimulated by pharmaceuticals are alleviating psychiatric symptoms?
\f1 \

\f2 \
Two major trends are appearing in psychology and psychiatry: 
\f1 \

\f2 \
1. The current psychoanalytic taxonomy of mental states is based on conjectures and assumptions based on a few case studies, and they have not been tested against evidence and observation.
\f1 \

\f2 \
2. Psychiatric disorders must have a physical component, and hence, the line between psychiatry and neurology may be breaking down.
\f1 \

\f2 \
In light of these trends, what will happen to the field of psychiatry?
\f1 \

\f2 \
}