{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f2\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sb240\sa60\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 ##### Sensation and Perception: Fechner\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
On the morning of 22\super nd\nosupersub  of October, 1850, the story goes, a young physiologist named `\\index[gamebook]\{Fechner, Gustav\}`\{=latex\}Gustav Theodor Fechner lay in bed, puzzled by the relationship between the intensity of a psychological experience (i.e. hearing a sound, measured by introspection) and the intensity of the physical stimulus (i.e. the amplitude of the air vibrations). On that morning, it occurred to him that the relative increase in the physical stimulus might correspond to the relative increase in the psychological experience.  It took him a decade to prepare the idea for publication, which he presented as `\\index[gamebook]\{Weber\'92s law\}`\{=latex\}\'92Weber's law':\
\
`\\[ dp  = k(dS/S) \\]`\{=latex\}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 where
\f2\i  dp
\f1\i0  is the change in the psychological experience,
\f2\i  k
\f1\i0  is a constant to be determined experimentally,
\f2\i  dS
\f1\i0  is the change in the stimulus and
\f2\i  S
\f1\i0  is the stimulus. He added to this the idea that the physical stimulus must break a certain threshold to be perceivable at all to derive what is now known as 'Fechner's law\'92: `\\index[gamebook]\{Fechner\'92s law\}`\{=latex\}\
\
`\\[ p = k\\ln(S/S_\{0\}) \\] `\{=latex\}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Where S\sub 0\nosupersub  is the threshold under which the stimulus is not perceived.\
\
Fechner's law is the first mathematical law (some might say 'model') in psychology.  It posits a specific relationship between a psychological entity (sensation) and a physical entity (the stimulus).  Unlike his predecessors who had contented themselves with discovering the relationships between ideas in a rather imprecise way, Fechner had bridged the divide between the psychological and the physical by giving that bridge the precision of Mathematics.  \
\
Fechner's book,
\f2\i  *Elements of Psychophysics*
\f1\i0 , published in {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://14FE1CB7-4D9F-4CBD-BCFC-CB5CDA7E95A5"}}{\fldrslt 1860,}} had a profound effect in both Germany and England.  Physiologists now had a model of precision for which they could strive. And psychologists had a model of understanding the relationships between the physical and the psychological. Most importantly, however, the book inspired Hermann Ebbinghaus to begin studying memory.  But that story will have to be left to another time.\
\
}