{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 ## Introduction\
\
Welcome to \'93Defining the Mind.\'94  This game is set around the creation of the DSM-III in the 1970\'92s.  Prior to this period, psychoanalysis dominated psychiatry, and behaviorism dominated psychology, to the point that changed seemed unthinkable---indeed, both sides bolstered their legitimacy by appeals to Philosophy of Science.\
\
This is not a game about the accumulation and use of power in the ordinary way. This is a game about academic credibility and evidence.  In the ideal of academic life towards which we strive, these are one and the same.  In reality, of course, they are not. \
\
But there are moments---Kuhn used the political metaphor of a revolution---where known anomalies in the dominant paradigm become to great to ignore, and shifts happen. In these moments, academic credibility takes on a new form. And like political revolutions, new movements in science gain credibility by appeal to external entities and ideologies.\
\
The DSMIII marks a significant revolution in Psychiatry. The DSM I\'92s \'93Revised Nomenclature\'94 is 39 pages long <!--\\fullref\{app: 
\f1 DSMI\}-->. The DSMII\'92s is 40 pages <!--\\fullref\{app: DSMII\}-->. The equivalent section (2) of the DSMIII is 300 pages long.  The DSMIII-R added another 250 pages or so and the DSMIV another 100.  Since then, the DSM IV-TR  and the DSM V  ...}