{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\li432\fi-432\sb240\sa120
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs24 \cf0 #### 
\f1\b\fs32 Conceptual issues at stake\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
Many of the issues raised in the course of the game are appropriately philosophical.  While we've instructed the students to focus on the evidence, and its relationship with the claims asserted, one is often forced to notice how few of the great conflicts in the history of psychology and psychiatry are actually about the 
\i quality
\i0  of the evidence presented. The conflicts are, most frequently, actually about whether the evidence in question can be considered 'scientific.' \
\
Some of these issues that will make an appearance in the game are:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\sa120
\ls2\ilvl0
\f2 \cf0 * 
\f0 Is mental illness a disorder of an individual or a society? (i.e. are the entities studied in psychology individual humans or human societies?) -Clark, Albee, Szasz\
\
\ls2\ilvl0
\f2 * 
\f0 Is medical model an appropriate model for the classification, diagnostic criteria and treatment of mental disorders? Szasz, Albee v. Spitzer\
\
\ls2\ilvl0
\f2 * 
\f0 Related: Should mental disorders be classified in terms of their causes (etiology), or their symptoms? (psychoanalysts v. Spitzer)\
\pard\pardeftab720\li1418\fi-360\sa120
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\sa120
\ls2\ilvl0
\f2 \cf0 * 
\f0 Are mental health norms defined in terms of statistical frequency of a given behavior in the population, or ideals of human behavior? (Anastasi v. Bieber)\
\
\ls2\ilvl0
\f2 * 
\f0 Is modeling / abductive reasoning a scientific method, or is science limited to explanations of observable behavior in terms of observable behavior? (cognitivists v. behaviorists)\
\
\ls2\ilvl0
\f2 * 
\f0 What are the responsibilities of scientists who study humans and human societies for social advocacy? (Chomsky, Skinner, Albee, Clark v. Tyler, Bieber)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120
\cf0 \
##### Philosophy of Science rearing its ugly head\
\
Well, not \'91ugly\'92 per se. But still...\
\
\
##### Research design\
\
I\'92ve included a \'91textbook\'92 style section (<!--\\fullref\{testingcausalclaimsexperimentally\}-->) in the game book that introduces the standard independent variable - dependent variable - controls logic that is included in most research methods in psychology courses. I prefer, of course, to introduce these ideas with real historical examples, as I did in section <!--\\fullref\{theparadigmaticexperiments\}-->.\
\
I included the digested \'91textbook\'92 section to give the research committee a quick and dirty heuristic for judging the validity of proposed experiments. But this simplistic approach is largely misguided.  There are famous examples from this period that simply don\'92t fit the model:\
\
* We know that the IV in  Zimbardo\'92s prison \'91experiment\'92 is assignment to either \'91prisoner\'92 or \'91guard\'92 role, but what is his DV?\
\
* Milgrim measured the number of hops a letter would take in his \'91small world\'92 experiment, but what is his manipulation of the IV?\
\
* Similarly, we know that Rosehan measured the time spent inside a mental health institution, but what was the IV?\
\
We want the research committee to raise these kind of questions when these proposals come before the committee.  If we taught solely from historical examples, these concerns might not be raised.  }