{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f2\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sb240\sa60\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 ##### Operant Conditioning & Radical Behaviorism: Skinner\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 Starting in 1938, Behaviorism underwent a radical transformation.  In that year, Burrhus Frederic Skinner (1904 \'96 1990) published
\f2\i  *The Behavior of Organisms: An Experimental Analysis*,
\f1\i0  in which he introduced the idea of
\f2\i  `\\index[gamebook]\{Behaviorism!operant conditioning\}`\{=latex\}*operant {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://CBEFC857-2EA1-4036-9020-07FF535CB938"}}{\fldrslt conditioning*
\f1\i0 .}}
\f1\i0  ([#Anonymous:Auva_WZ2]) Skinner's insight was not entirely without precedent, but rather built upon the concept of 'instrumental conditioning' originally introduced by `\\index[gamebook]\{Thorndike, Edward\}`\{=latex\}Edward Thorndike (1874-1949).  \
\
According to what is now called 'Thorndike's law of effect', if a response is followed closely by a pleasurable experience, it is more likely to be associated with the stimulus than if it is followed by a unpleasurable or neutral experience. Skinner turned this idea into the central explanatory mechanism of behaviorism: rather than the conditioned stimulus occurring simultaneously with the unconditioned stimulus, the conditioning stimulus occurs immediately after the desired behavior as a consequence of the desired behavior. In his own words:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li283\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 > Operant behavior usually affects the environment and generates stimuli which is \'93feed back\'94 to the organism. Some feedback may have the effects identified by the layman as reward or punishment.  Any consequence of behavior which is rewarding or, more technically, reinforcing increases the probability of further responding. ([p. 129][#Skinner:1972wq])\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 By introducing the idea of
\f2\i  *reinforcement*
\f1\i0  of a behavior as whatever makes it more likely that that behavior will occur, Skinner was able to undercut Tolman's insistence that a
\f2\i  purpose
\f1\i0  or
\f2\i  goal
\f1\i0  was required to explain the behavior of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://ECCF2296-A59A-4C1C-B800-0683B3A1BDA2"}}{\fldrslt animals.}}\
\
As a boy, Skinner was fascinated with mechanisms.  Legend has it that he even built a steam cannon out of a discarded water boiler. Extraordinarily intelligent, Skinner found `\\index[gamebook]\{Bacon, Francis\}`\{=latex\}Francis Bacon's works at about fourteen, and became enamored with the idea that Bacon may have written Shakespeare's {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://C6D8D236-E530-4360-9B63-48FDA71A83C6"}}{\fldrslt plays.}}  He majored in English and literature at Hamilton College, where he became famous for elaborate practical jokes.  During his time at Hamilton, he expressed significant interest in the authors Joyce and Proust---but also physiological psychologists `\\index[gamebook]\{Pavlov, Ivan\}`\{=latex\}Pavlov and `\\index[gamebook]\{Loeb, Jacques\}`\{=latex\}Jacques Loeb. Legend has it that he met Robert Frost, who encouraged him to become a writer.   After that did not pan out, he returned to behaviorism through the work of `\\index[gamebook]\{Russell, Bertrand\}`\{=latex\}Bertrand Russell---specifically Russell's comparison between 'reflex' and 'force' in {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://6E9E81F3-6AA9-49A7-9A91-F539C1A8857F"}}{\fldrslt physics.}}\
\
Inspired by Pavlov's maxim \'93control the environment and you will see order in behavior,\'94 as well as his passion for inventing mechanisms, Skinner began to create machines that would control behavior of an organism by automatically rewarding the desired behavior and punishing behavior that was not desired.\
\
These successes led Skinner to hypothesize that all animal behavior---including human behavior---resulted from such forces. He delineated four types of operant conditioning:
\f2\i  
\f1\i0 *positive reinforcement*, *negative reinforcement*, *punishment* and *extinction*, which he studied with mathematical precision. Skinner shifted behaviorism's emphasis from reflexes to regularities of the whole organism, moving from the causal link between stimulus and response to the relationship between the response and its reinforcement.`\\index[gamebook]\{Behaviorism!operant conditioning!positive reinforcement\}\\index[gamebook]\{Behaviorism!operant conditioning!negative reinforcement\} \\index[gamebook]\{Behaviorism!operant conditioning!punishment\} \\index[gamebook]\{Behaviorism!operant conditioning!extinction\}`\{=latex\} \
\
According to Skinner, this form of behaviorism was the inevitable development of psychology into a full-fledged science. Often pulling on an analogy to the history of physics, chemistry and biology, he argued that 'consciousness' and 'inner causes' were the remnants of superstition, and human psychology and society could be perfected through the principles of operant conditioning.  \
\
Skinner adamantly insisted that scientific inquiry could not countenance hypothetical unobservable entities. Following Russell, Skinner argued that explaining a given behavior, such as 'eating,' in terms of a mental state, such as 'being hungry,' was
\f2\i  *ad hoc*
\f1\i0 , equivalent to the pre-scientific explanation of physical events in terms of vitalistic 'forces.'  For example, if I explain why a glass breaks by referring to it's fragility, I've really explained nothing at all---I\'92ve only explained breaking in terms of being likely to break.  A genuine explanation of a glass's breaking is in terms of the environmental conditions and events immediately prior to the breaking of the glass. Likewise, explaining eating in terms of 'hunger' is hollow, repeating only the likelihood of eating behavior.\
\
 Throughout his career, Skinner argued that radical behaviorism alone was
\f2\i  the
\f1\i0  scientific approach to psychology. Theories---including Hull\'92s---cannot refer to underlying entities. If one were to object that paradigmatic sciences like physics postulate unobservable underlying entities such as electrons, Skinner would retort that these are not believed by physics to really exist, but are merely convenient placeholders for the mathematical relationships that hold between observable {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://887C7BFF-0BF2-4C72-A886-A051557B70A6"}}{\fldrslt entities.}} A scientist must restrict his or her work to observation, not theorizing. In retrospective appraisal of his own work, Skinner would claim of his work in
\f2\i  *Behavior of Organisms*
\f1\i0 :\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li283\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 > The notes, data, and publications which I have examined do not show that I ever behaved in the manner of Man Thinking as described by John Stuart Mill or John Dewey or in reconstructions of scientific behavior by other philosophers of science.  I never faced a Problem which was more than the eternal problem of finding order. I never attacked a problem by constructing a Hypothesis.  I never deduced Theorems or submitted them to Experimental Check. So far as I can see, I had no preconceived Mode of behavior\'97certainly not a physiological or mentalistic one and, I believe, not a conceptual one.\'94 (1972, p. 112)\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 In the years following, Behaviorism came to utterly dominate American Psychology.  By 1960, for example, the standard textbook for experimental psychology, Burton G. Andreas'
\f2\i  *Experimental Psychology*
\f1\i0  could confidently assert:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li283\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 > **Psychology seeks to express the laws of behavior.**
\f1\b0  It makes the assumption that all aspects of behavior, like other natural phenomena, are dependent on the conditions under which the behavior occurs... Psychology seeks to describe the dependence of the activities of people or animals on their environments and states of being. Psychology's place is delineated by this particular goal and the specific techniques devised for striving toward it. [p. 4, emphasis in original][#Andreas:WVE4neKa]\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
}