{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldItalicMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-ItalicMT;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f4\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f5\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT;
\f6\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;\f7\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldItalicMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue10;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c3922;}
\deftab709
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf0 ## Stanley Milgram, PhD\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 Starting Credibility: 15
\f0\b \
\

\f2\i0 ### Your Biography\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 You are Stanley Milgram, social psychologist. You were born August 15, 1933 to a family of Jewish immigrants from Germany who had settled in the Bronx and opened a bakery. By all accounts, you had a warm and untroubled childhood.\
\
Your intelligence was spotted early in life and encouraged by your parents. In one legendary event, your experiments with your chemistry set brought the local fire department. You are most famous for your 'obedience' experiments starting in 1961 at Yale. These experiments sought to understand how normal people could do horrible things to others in the presence of an authority figure. Many people have drawn parallels between your experiments and the behavior of Nazi soldiers in the Holocaust, or even the actions of academics during the McCarthy era in the US. One biographer (Blass, 2004) has noted that your Bar Mitzvah speech was on the plight on European Jews under Hitler, and the McCarthy purges at Queens College occurred when you were enrolled.\
\
After completing your undergraduate study in 1954, you applied to Harvard's Department of Social Relations, an interdisciplinary program that included social psychology, sociology, anthropology and clinical psychology. You were rejected. You persisted, however, taking summer classes in psychology. Eventually, they let you in provisionally. You were admitted to the full program after a year.\
\
There you worked with Solomon Asch, who was investigating conformity to group thinking by testing whether a subject would give the wrong answer to a question if it agreed with the group of experimental confederates. For your dissertation, you extended this research by comparing Norwegians and French.\
\
You moved to Yale in 1960, where you began designing your famous experiment. You submitted proposals to the National Science Foundation (NSF), the National Institutes of Mental Health (NIMH) and the Office of Naval Research.\
\
You moved back to Harvard to direct the Department of Social Relations in 1963, but left for CUNY in 1966. You famous 'obedience' studies were conducted while you were at Yale. They have been the subject of great controversy, both from a scientific and ethical perspective. As a student, make sure you are confident in the experimental protocol as well as the results. See Milgram 1963 and 1965 for the primary source report.\
\
You now chair the graduate program in social psychology at CUNY.\
\
In 1967, you published the famous 'small world' study, in which you randomly selected individuals in Omaha, Nebraska and Wichita, Kansas, and asked them to try to deliver a packet of information to a target person in Boston, Mass. If they did not know the target personally, they should give the letter to someone who might be able to pass it on. Milgram then counted the number of contacts handled the packet in transit \'96 the average was 5.5, giving us the common myth of 'six degrees of separation.' \
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 ### Game Objectives\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 Get onto the research committee. While you have always had an interest in research ethics, the criticism of your experiments have made you develop something of an expertise in the APA standards (that means, of course, that you, as the student, need to develop an expertise with both Milgram's experimental design and the APA standards that are included in the gamebook).\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b \cf0 #### Specific Assignments\
\
**Initial Committee Membership**\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f3\i0\b0 \cf0 \
`\\begin\{
\f4\fs22 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
service\}[Milgram]\\label\{service:milgram\}Member-at-large of the Board of Directors, with term ending 1971.\\end\{service\}`\{=latex\}\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 You start as a member-at-large on the Board of Directors, term ends 1971 (Large classes only)
\f4\i0\b0\fs22 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
##### Demedicalization\
\
Indeterminate\
\
##### Research\
\
Join the research committee\
\
`\\begin\{researchtask\}[Milgram]\\label\{researchtask:milgram\}Propose \'91small world\'92, probably in 1974.\\end\{researchtask\}`\{=latex\} Propose an experiment on campus testing the 'small world' problem in the campus environment in 1974. Present your results (or, if the experiment is not completed in time, or denied by the research committee, the results of Milgram's original 1967 experiment) to the conference.\
\
\
##### Association Business / DSM-III\
\
Indeterminate`\\begin\{
\f4\fs22 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
writingtask\}[Milgram]\\label\{writingtask:milgram\}\

\f3\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Present a paper summarizing your study of obedience (1963 and 1965) also in 1974, to complement the symposium on the social responsibility of academics.
\f4\fs22 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\\end\{writingtask\}`\{=latex\}
\f3\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
##### Social responsibilities of social scientists\
\
Oppose the proposal (from Clark, 1975) to create an affirmative action plan for psychology and psychiatry, on the grounds that it is an unwarranted authoritarian intervention in personal matters. Milgram is quoted in Blass, 2004 (p. 201) as saying (in 1971):\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 > \'93There is some sense of progress and movement at the Graduate Center. A big question, however, is whether intellectual standards or political pressures will prevail in the conduct of our program. Already, we have been asked to recruit faculty on a racial basis, and we make exceptions to our usual admission standards in assessing potential black students. If carried too far, this could have disastrous consequences for the quality of the program. Then I'll leave.\'94\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
##### Definition of \'91mental illness\'92 and fission of the APA
\f0\i\b \

\f3\i0\b0 \
You are neutral on 
\f5\b the issue of the definition of mental illness
\f3\b0 .\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 ### Must Read\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 Milgram, S. (1963) \'93Behavioral study of obedience.\'94
\f6\i  Journal of Abnormal and Social Psychology
\f3\i0 , 67, 371\'96378. Available at <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.wadsworth.com/psychology_d/templates/student_resources/0155060678_rathus/ps/ps01.html"}}{\fldrslt http://www.wadsworth.com/psychology_d/templates/student_resources/0155060678_rathus/ps/ps01.html}}> with permission from Alexandra Milgram.\
\
\
Milgram, S. (1967). "\cf2 The Small World Problem\cf0 "
\f6\i \cf2  Psychology Today\cf0 ,
\f3\i0  2 p. 60 \'96 67\
\
#### Other Primary Sources\
\
Milgram, S. (1965). \'93Some conditions of obedience and disobedience to authority\'94
\f6\i  Human Relations
\f3\i0  1965, 18(1), 57-76\
\
Travers, J. & Milgram, S. (1969). \'93An Experimental Study of the Small World Problem\'94,
\f6\i  Sociometry
\f3\i0 , 32(4), p. 425-443 (available on Jstor)\
\
Milgram, S. (1974),
\f6\i  Obedience to Authority; An Experimental View\

\f3\i0 \
Milgram, S. (1974),\cf2  "The Perils of Obedience"\cf0 ,
\f6\i  Harper's Magazine
\f3\i0  available at <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://home.swbell.net/revscat/perilsOfObedience.html"}}{\fldrslt http://home.swbell.net/revscat/perilsOfObedience.html}}>\
\
Milgram, S., Liberty; II. J., Toledo. R. and Blacken J. (1956). Response to intrusion in waiting lines.
\f6\i  Journal of Personality and Social Psychology
\f3\i0 . 51, 683-9.\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f7\i\b \cf0 #### Secondary Sources\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f3\i0\b0 \cf0 Blass, T. (2004).
\f6\i  The Man Who Shocked the World: The Life and Legacy of Stanley Milgram
\f3\i0 .\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/0738203998"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 ISBN 0-7382-0399-8}}\cf2 \
\cf0 \
Raver, D. (2010) "Psychography: Stanley Milgram\'94 available at <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://faculty.frostburg.edu/mbradley/psyography/stanleymilgram.html"}}{\fldrslt http://faculty.frostburg.edu/mbradley/psyography/stanleymilgram.html}}>\
}