{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;\f2\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 #### Birth of Psychology: German Physiological Psychology in the 1880s-1890s.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs24 \cf0 During the 19
\fs16 \super th
\fs24 \nosupersub  century, many scientists believed that living things were distinguished from dead things because the living things had some kind of \'91vital force\'92 within them that the dead things lacked. The \'91vital force\'92 was non-physical, and could not be explained in purely physical terms. Shreds of this \'91vitalism\'92 hangs about in our literature---Mary Shelley\'92s *Frankenstein* hails from an era where electricity was suspected of being the vital force, for example.\
\
In about 1847, four friends, three of them students of Johannes M\'fcller (1801-1858), gathered together in Berlin to swear an oath dedicating themselves to undermining Vitalism permanently. They committed themselves to the view that:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 >No other forces than the common physical-chemical ones are active within the organism. In those cases which cannot at the time be explained by these forces one has either to find the specific way or form of their action by means of the physical \'96mathematical method or assume new forces equal in dignity to the chemical-physical forces inherent in matter, reducible to the force of attraction and repulsion. (Quoted in [#Bernfeld:1949ji])\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 These Anti-Vitalists went on to found physiological psychology. They were `\\index\{von Helmholtz, Hermann |(\}\\index\{Ludwig, Carl\}\\index\{du Bois-Reymond, Emil\}\\index\{von Br\'fccke, Ernst Wilhelm\}`\{=latex\}Hermann von Helmholtz (1821-1894), Carl Ludwig (1816-1895), Emil du Bois-Reymond (1818-1896) and Ernst Wilhelm von Br\'fccke (1819-1892). They were joined shortly thereafter by `\\index\{Lotze, Hermann\}\\index\{Fechner, Gustav\}`\{=latex\}Hermann Lotze (1817-1891) and his student Gustav Fechner (1801-1887) and came to dominate the training of the next generation of psychologist and psychiatrists: Helmholtz hired `\\index\{Ladd-Franklin, Christine\}`\{=latex\}Christine Ladd-Franklin as his assistant, who went on to be one of the first woman members of the APA, and the first woman to hold a professorship at the `\\index\{University of Chicago\}`\{=latex\}University of Chicago. `\\index\{Freud, Sigmund\}`\{=latex\}Sigmund Freud studied under Br\'fccke; `\\index\{Pavlov, Ivan\}`\{=latex\}Ivan Pavlov under Ludwig and `\\index\{Wundt, Wilhelm\}`\{=latex\}Wilhelm Wundt under du Bois-Reymond. Wundt went on to work in Helmholtz\'92s lab after Ladd-Franklin returned to {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://E42DF701-13C7-4600-982D-28D089415BFC"}}{\fldrslt America.}}\
\
While all of these thinkers had a profound influence on the founding and development of psychology as a discipline, we\'92ll focus attention for the moment on {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://79247412-FF21-4C3C-9A04-AFC648162C10"}}{\fldrslt Helmholtz}}.  \
\
`\\newthought\{Helmholtz was one of the great scientific minds of his era.\}`\{=latex\} Not only is he now recognized as a godfather of experimental psychology, he is widely respected in the history of Optics, and is, in many ways, the father of ophthalmology, having invented the ophthalmoscope.\
\
His professor, M\'fcller, held that nerves had 'specific sense energies' naturally: our sensory system had certain
\f3\i  *a priori*
\f2\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://C2389851-D7B2-4777-A3E3-97691D384B5F"}}{\fldrslt assumptions}} about time and space literally built into them, making sensory experience like binocular vision possible. Students familiar with the history of philosophy may recognize this as a position influenced by Kantian psychology.\
\
Helmholtz, however, posited that our mental system as a whole adjusted itself through a process of 'unconscious inference' to represent the external world. The contents of our experiences---the redness of a red apple, for example---are merely 'signs' or 'indicators' of the objects in the world that our experiences represent.  Our sensory systems automatically and unconsciously *recover* the world through the complex information to which it has access. \
\
Unconscious inferences that produce stable representations (I.e. experience of a red apple) are *not* accessible to us through mere reflection, but neither are they \'91built in\'92 or \'91innate.\'92  They are, in short, trained through experience with the regularities of the world itself. The process of sensation is
\f3\i  learned
\f2\i0 , not biologically determined. While contemporary psychophysics has advanced greatly since 1850, the basic model of how perception works in psychology today is Helmholtz\'92s.`\\index\{Helmholtz, Hermann |)\}`\{=latex\}\
\
\
}