{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;\f2\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;\f4\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 #### The Second Revolution: Cognitive Science\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs24 \cf0 In 1957, two books were published on the topic of language use by humans. As we have discussed, philosophers of mind since `\\index\{Descartes, Ren\'e9\}`\{=latex\} have long considered language-use *the* defining characteristic of humanity---the behavior that distinguishes humans from animals and thinking from instinct. The empirical study of language-use therefore, has the potential to quantify, analyze and observe, with scientific reliability, what we are as thinking beings.\
\
`\\newthought\{In the first,
\f3\i  *Verbal Behavior*
\f2\i0 ,\}`\{=latex\} `\\index\{Skinner, Burrhus Frederic\}`\{=latex\}B.F. Skinner explained humans' language use in terms of operant conditioning.  Verbal behavior is particularly interesting for the behaviorist because it isn't directly reinforced by the world, but rather mediated by another person via his or her own verbal behavior. In fact, this unique feature comes to form Skinner's definition of verbal behaviors: those behaviors that are 'reinforced through the mediation of other persons' ([p. 2][#Skinner:Qkojn6ja]). He later refines and restricts that definition thus: \'93If we make the further provision that the 'listener' must be responding in ways which have been conditioned
\f3\i  *precisely in order to reinforce the behavior of the speaker*,
\f2\i0  we narrow our subject to what is traditionally recognized as the verbal field.\'94 (p. 225) This definition, you'll no doubt notice, makes no reference to vocalization, words, sentences, thoughts, phonemes, meanings, semantics, grammar, or anything else typically associated with language-behavior.\
\
`\\newthought\{The second was Noam Chomsky\'92s\}`\{=latex\} *
\f3\i Syntactic Structures*.
\f2\i0  Chomsky`\\index\{Chomsky, Noam\}`\{=latex\} opens by noting that the set of all grammatical sentences in any given language, while infinite, is not random. There are sentences like 'Colorless green ideas sleep furiously' which may have never occurred in English before 1957, but nonetheless are grammatical sentences; while at the same time, there are sentences like 'Furiously sleep ideas green colorless' that are not grammatical. He then proposes that an adequate theory of language ought to describe a device that generates all and only the sentences that are grammatical in that language. Any theory that can't generate the set of grammatical sentences simply is not an adequate explanation of human language-behavior.\
\
Central to Chomsky's theory is the thesis that humans differ from animals in their ability to use language. You'll remember from the beginning of this history that that view was shared by Rene Descartes and the Port-Royalists, who used it to argue for the distinction between the soul (mind) and the body. For Chomsky, however, the ability to use language does not entail a non-physical soul. Alan Turing's machines showed that a physical entitled generate new and novel sentences that follow the grammatical structures. Verbal behavior, the defining feature of human psychology, is the ability to structure sentences in new and novel ways, but that does not mean that human minds are non-physical entities. It simply means that minds may be physical computing devices.\
\
Not only do the cognitivists reject the behaviorists conjecture that one can explain human behavior without reference to internal states, they reject the behaviorists rejection of the thesis that there is a dividing like between \'93man and brutes.\'94 Animals may make sounds that mimic language, but they do not respond to \'93the sense of all that is said in its presence.\'94\
\
`\\newthought\{In 1959, Chomsky published\}`\{=latex\} a vitriolic review of Skinner's
\f3\i  *Verbal Behavior*
\f2\i0 , in which he claimed that not only were Skinner's definitions of reinforcement and conditioning either confused or circular, he argues that empirically, children learn grammar at a higher rate than can be explained by operant conditioning. It is included in `\\fullref\{
\f4\fs28 app: Chomsky\}`\{=latex\}
\f2\fs24 .\
\
In the decade before these tumultuous years, the Macy foundation had sponsored series of conferences that introduced some of great early mathematicians and computer scientists including `\\index\{von Neumann, John\}`\{=latex\}John von Neumann (the father of computer science), `\\index\{Weiner, Norbert\}`\{=latex\}Norbert Weiner (founder of cybernetics), `\\index\{Shannon, Claude\}`\{=latex\}Claude Shannon (creator of Information theory),  `\\index\{McColloch, Warren\}`\{=latex\}Warren McCulloch and `\\index\{Pitts, Walter\}`\{=latex\}Walter Pitts (who together created a mathematical model of a neuron, which is the basis for all neural network architecture), `\\index\{Bigelow, Julian\}`\{=latex\}Julian Bigelow and `\\index\{Rosenblueth, Arutuo\}`\{=latex\}Arutuo Rosenblueth (also pioneering cyberneticists) to the great social scientists and psychologists of the day, including the anthropologist `\\index\{Mead, Margaret\}`\{=latex\}Margaret Mead, the Gestalt psychologist `\\index\{K\'f6hler, Wolfgang\}`\{=latex\}Wolfgang K\'f6hler. The goal of these workshops was to investigate the similarities between computational machines and human minds and social structures. Behaviorists almost never attended. While the results from these conferences were minimal, they set the stage for MIT's Second Symposium on Information theory, September 10-12 1956, that forever changed forever the face of psychology.  \
\
At that conference, `\\index\{Newell, Alan\}`\{=latex\}Alan Newell and `\\index\{Simon, Herbert\}`\{=latex\}Herbert Simon, computer scientists from Carnegie-Melon, presented a simple machine that could do logic proofs and Noam Chomsky presented his idea of a transformative-generative grammar as the basis of language. George Miller`\\index\{Miller, George\}`\{=latex\} writes, in an unpublished paper presented at MIT and repeatedly cited by historians of cognitive science, that he came away from the conference with a sense \'93more intuitive than rational, that human experimental psychology, theoretical linguistics, and the computer simulation of the cognitive process were all the pieces from a larger whole, and that the future would see a progressive elaboration and coordination of their shared concerns.\'94  Miller recalls Newell telling him \'93Chomsky was developing exactly the same kind of ideas for language that he and Herb Simon were developing for theorem-proving.\'94 ([#MILLER:1979tt])\
\
And so began \'93the Cognitive Revolution.\'94
\f0\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb240\sa60\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
}