{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab709
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Citations not explicitly mentioned previously\
\pard\pardeftab709

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120
\cf0 References used in constructing roles, not specifically mentioned in individual role sheets:\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\sa120
\cf0  Murchison, C.A. & Boring, E.G.
\i  A History of psychology in autobiography.
\i0  Clark University Press, Worcester, Mass\
Kutchins, H., Kirk, S. A., & Kirk, S. (2003).
\i  Making Us Crazy
\i0 . Simon and Schuster.\
Zusne, L. (1984).
\i  Biographical dictionary of psychology
\i0 . Westport, Conn.: Greenwood Press.\
Sheehy, N., Chapman, A. J., & Conroy, W. A. (1997).
\i  Biographical dictionary of psychology
\i0 . London ; New York: Routledge Reference.\
Cummings, N. A., & O'Donohue, W. T. (2008). Eleven blunders that cripple psychotherapy in America. CRC Press.\
Denny, D. (1998)
\i  Current Concepts in Transgender Identity
\i0 , Taylor & Francis\
Aldrich, R., & Wotherspoon, G. (2001). Who's who in contemporary gay and lesbian history. Routledge.\
Bayer, R. (1987).
\i  Homosexuality and American Psychiatry: the politics of diagnosis
\i0 . Princeton University Press\
Bayer, R. and Spitzer, R. (1985). \'93Neurosis, Psychodynamics, and DSM-III: A History of the Controversy\'94
\i  Arch Gen Psychiatry
\i0 . 42: 187-196.\
Marcus, E. (2002).
\i  Making Gay History: the half-century fight for lesbian and gay equal rights
\i0 , HarperCollins\
Rosario, V. A. (2002).
\i  Homosexuality and science: a guide to the debates,
\i0  ABC-CLIO\
Wilson, K. K. (20XX) The Disparate Classification of Gender and Sexual Orientation in American Psychiatry, online at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://priory.com/psych/disparat.htm"}}{\fldrslt http://priory.com/psych/disparat.htm}} Accessed 2/18/2011\
}