{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f2\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red191\green191\blue191;\red29\green29\blue29;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc3\levelnfcn3\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{upper-alpha\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\deftab709
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf0 \
History of classifications of mental illness\
\pard\pardeftab709\qc

\f1\i0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120
\cf0 While behaviors associated with mental illness\'97hallucinations, catatonic states, mania, etc.\'97have been known since ancient times, psychiatry dates its regularization as a scientific discipline to the work of the French physician Phillipe Pinel. His
\i  Trait\'e9 m\'e9dico-philosophique sur l'ali\'e9nation mentale; ou la manie
\i0  stands as the first attempt at a scientific classification of mental illness. The book, translated as
\i  Treatise on Insanity
\i0  in 1806 by D.D. Davis, is excerpted in Appendix 
\b Error! Reference source not found.
\b0  on page 
\b Error! Bookmark not defined.
\b0 .  \
Pinel was an intellectual disciple of \'c9tienne Bonnot de Condillac, who in turn, was a disciple of John {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://5DD5D55C-1FFF-4F1B-846B-B697F0B8D72F"}}{\fldrslt Locke.}} Locke is most well known as the intellectual progenitor of the American Constitution. But his views on the nature of mind and the empirical basis of knowledge held sway over much of the Western intellectual world in the first half of the 19\super th\nosupersub  century.   Locke's influence on Condillac and hence Pinel was two-fold: first, he held that all our ideas originate in sensation and reflection. Second, and as importantly, Locke followed Francis Bacon in teaching that all knowledge must be based on careful, systematic observation.\
For the empiricists, it follows that insanity, which is a severe form of our ideas 'leading us astray', is explained by a incorrect connection and association of ideas. The mechanism is simple: some of our ideas have a natural affinity or connection with one another. Others are held together by mere custom or habit. Cases of insanity are cases where habitual associations become so disorganized they begin to effect the 'natural' associations. This misassociation can become so extreme that it can \'93set us awry in our actions, as well moral as natural, passions, reasonings, and notions themselves\'94 (Bk 2, Ch 33, p9. p 317). It is worth noting that to this day, we use metaphors like 'lost his senses' to describe someone with mental illness; and we describe poorly chosen actions as 'not very sensible.'\
This is simply the theoretical basis for understanding insanity in the broadest possible terms.  To truly understand how mental disorder is defined and classified, we must consider how the mentally ill have been treated.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Pinel \'96 Foundation in Empiricism\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 Phillipe Pinel (1745-1826) revolutionized the treatment of the insane. When, in 1792, he was appointed a physician at the main asylum in Paris\'97the Bic\'eatre hospital\'97the situation was dire. According to a biographer in 1846:\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283
\cf0  \'93The buildings were unfit for habitation. In them were congregated men crouching together in the mud, in stone cells, narrow, cold, damp, destitute of air and light, and merely furnished with a straw bed, seldom renewed, and soon becoming foul and offensive; wretched dens, in which one would hesitate to place the meanest animal. The insane, who were immured in these filthy holes, were at the mercy of their attendants, and these persons were malefactors released from prison. The wretched patients were loaded with chains and manacled like convicts. Thus given up defenseless to the wickedness of their guardians, they were the sports of an insulting mockery, or of a brutality all the more blind that it was gratuitous.\'94 (Marx, 1846, p. 194-195)\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\fi-283
\cf0 Upon his arrival, Pinel immediately began advocating pity, respect, and compassion for the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://DD92657A-B70D-4DFC-A381-F0B10C6067A3"}}{\fldrslt patients,}} not only for humanitarian reasons, but also in order to allow the Baconian method of careful observation. Bic\'eatre's chief physician, Pussin, was sympathetic to Pinel's techniques, and began a pilot study of unchaining the patients.\
\pard\pardeftab709
\cf0 \
\
Two years later, Pinel was appointed  chief physician of the Hospice de la Salp\'eatri\'e8re\'97Paris' parallel institution for women. There, the women were kept chained, often naked, in subterranean cells; subjected to the terrors of abusive guards and hungry rats. Pinel immediate banned the use of metal chains as restraints, allowed the women clothing, and established something resembling human {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://53980D30-35C0-4EC2-9FD4-40793D5029FA"}}{\fldrslt civility.}} This act was mythologized during the French Revolution as part of the overthrow of the aristocratic order, and has been duly commemorated in {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://B699BC13-D686-4B08-B5C2-F2B073B8E6F5"}}{\fldrslt Art.}}\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120
\cf0 Pinel's revolutionary kindness is not just a story of a sympathetic humanitarian.  Pinel's goal was to  systematical classify mental illness in the Baconian manner.  The conditions of confinement found in the Bic\'eatre and the Salp\'eatri\'e8re compounded the patients' mental illness, and confounded his attempts at observation. In these conditions, one could not determine if the regularity of symptoms found in the population resulted from the illness or the treatment. By providing the patients respect and dignity, he believed he could observe their mental illness in a more untainted form.\
In general, Pinel followed Locke and Condillac in holding that insanity was 'derangement of the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://E8C1503B-6298-4ABC-B11A-0843A74BCC0A"}}{\fldrslt understanding,'}} yet extended the view to cover cases where the memory, understanding and judgment were perfectly sound, and still the patient was maniacal. Pinel thus abandoned any formal all-encompassing theoretical explanation of insanity
\i  per se
\i0 , and preferred to work with its variants, which he classified as mania, melancholy, dementia and idiocy.\
Pinel spent a great amount of time showing that the conditions he was treating did not have a physiological basis. Much of his argumentation in
\i  Treatise on Insanity
\i0  turns on the dissections performed on patients who had died while at the Bic\'eatre. The reason for this was two-fold: first, the ancient Aristotlean understanding of the mind held that mental illness resulted from too much or too little of one of the four main 'humours': black bile, yellow bile, blood and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://FE1676F5-5CFF-4DCC-9E6D-667769DF0DED"}}{\fldrslt phlegm.}}  By showing that the mentally ill had no significant lesions in the brain, or imbalances in their 'fluids', Pinel was able to establish the independence of psychiatry from other forms of medicine.\
Secondly, there is a long tradition of defining the 'mental' as that which is opposed to the 'physical'. For example, Rene Descartes famously argues that the actions of our bodies can be explained entirely in physical, mechanistic terms, except that which can be attributed to, in his terms, our 'souls.'  It follows then, that if an illness is to be truly
\i  mental
\i0 , it must not have a physical explanation. And most importantly, physical causes are treated with physical interventions. As insanity was now deemed non-physical, the treatment cannot be physical. Hence, psychiatry is a discipline independent from physical medicine.\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\fi-283

\fs20 \cf0 While Pinel had no strong theoretical commitment or agenda, by following Locke's notion of mental illness as a confusion of ideas, he made two significant contributions to both psychiatry as a medical discipline and our understanding of the mind more broadly: First, if insanity was just a misassociation of ideas, it was not a permanent, inherited incurable disease. Second, if insanity is a misassociation of ideas, it does not depend on or result from physiological changes. Explanations for mental illness thus did not require autopsy; and treatment did not require {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://41F58F29-148A-4C28-BB42-EEBC0279C112"}}{\fldrslt surgery.}}\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\fs24 \cf0 It is likewise important to recognize that Pinel was, in many ways, precisely following Bacon's system of investigation. He was not attempting to form an overarching explanation. He was setting down tables upon tables of observed facts, classifying and arranging phenomena, highlighting privileged instances, and was open to any and all techniques that might shed light on these cases. After initial observation, he split \'93insanity\'94 into four varieties, distinguishing between the incurable dementia and idiocy from the often transient and curable mania and melancholy.\
Therapeutically, Pinel called his humane treatment of the insane the 'moral treatment.' In his words,\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283
\cf0 I then discovered, that insanity was curable in many instances, by mildness of treatment and attention to the state of the mind exclusively, and when coercion was indispensable, that it might be very effectually applied without corporal indignity. (p. 108).\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120
\cf0 His therapeutic program meant paying attention to the environment in which the insane were confined. He changed the architecture, the diet, the way the nurses and orderlies treated the patients, everything.  He even went so far as to allow the higher-functioning patients to work as nurses for the lower-functioning. Patients were listened to. Careful, detailed personal histories were taken. Baths, walking and gardening were encouraged.\
Pinel frequently borrowed from the snake-oil salesmen and charlatans that populated Western Europe at the time.  He used of the techniques of mesmerism (hypnosis), hellebore as an evacuative, bleeding, etc. , but as a follower of Bacon, insisted on the maxim \'93We cannot cure diseases by the resources of art, if not previously acquainted with their terminations, when left to the unassisted efforts of nature.\'94 (p. 109). For him, extreme treatments could only be used in extreme cases. The curable would be cured by simple humane treatment.\
It is worth pointing out that the word 'asylum' means, of course, a sanctuary or refuge. It was used in the late 18\super th\nosupersub  century to describe leper colonies, but it first appears in English in the 1808 translation of Pinel's
\i  Treatise on Insanity,
\i0  to reference the Bic\'eatre
\i .
\i0  It appears in English newspapers only in the 1860's, long after Pinel's 'moral treatment' had come to dominate the English treatment of the mentally ill.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Esquirol \'96 Mental Alienation\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 While Pinel tended to think of transient mental illness as a confusion of ideas, he occassionally spoke of the role of passions in mental illness.  In the early pages of the
\i  Treatise
\i0 , he hypotheses three different causes of insanity:\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283
\cf0 I now proceed to describe the general progress of periodical insanity. Amoung its various causes; exclusive of changes in the state of the atmosphere, my experience leads me to enumerate as the most frequent; undue indulgence of the angry passions; any circumstances calculated to suggest the recollection of the original exciting cause of the disease, intemperance in drinking, inanition, &c. (p. 12)\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120
\cf0 Pinel's greatest student, Esquirol built on this hypothesis of 'undue indulgence of the angry passions' and redefined the notion of transient insanity as 'mental alienation.' It was Esquirol who grew the empirical understanding of the mind into a full-fledged psychiatric system. But like Pinel, the set of conditions he sought to explain were those with symptoms that were not obviously explained by physical, bodily conditions.\
To Pinel's four-fold classification, Esquirol added monomania, or obsession with a single idea, as distinct kind of mental illness.  'Melancholy,' he renamed 'lypemania.' because the former implied the medieval theory of 'humors' and  'black bile.' These were distinguished by the types of passions that were out of order: \'93The passions of the insane are impetuous, especially in mania and monomania. They are of a depressing character in lypemania. In dementia and imbecility, those only exist, which spring from the first wants of man,--love, anger, jealousy.\'94 (p 26).  \
As the curable, transient forms of insanity were diseases of malformed passions, their treatment required reforming or redirecting the passions. His five varieties of insanity are defined thus:\
\pard\tx720\tx2835\pardeftab709\li709\fi-360
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 1.	Lypemania (melancholy of the ancients) delirium with respect to one, or a small number of objects, with predominance of a sorrowful and depressing passion.\
2.	Monomania, in which the delirium is  limited to one or a small number of objects, with excitement, and predominance of a gay, and expansive passion.\
3.	Mania, in which the delirium extends to all kids of objects, and is accompanied by excitement.\
4.	Dementia, win which the insensate utter folly, because the organs of thought have lost their energy, and the strength requisite to fulfill their functions.\
5.	Imbecility, or idiocy, in which the conformation of the organs has never been such, that hose who are thus afflicted, could reason justly. (29)\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120
\cf0 It is important to note here that the passions
\i  accompany
\i0  delirium with respect to collections of objects.  One cannot be passionate without being passionate about something. The 'something' that is the object of passion is supplied by the senses \'96 and hence, we're still within a Lockean framework of understanding the mind.  Ideas originate in sense experience and internal reflection. When the passions directed at one of these ideas becomes excessive of out of control, lypemania or monomania results, depending on the nature of the particular passion that becomes excessive. When the passions are exaggerated
\i  without
\i0  a specific object, and hence apply themselves to
\i  every
\i0  object, or what ever object is before the senses at a particular moment, mania results.\
Mental illness's causes \'93are as numerous as its forms are varied.\'94  Case studies presented in his
\i  Mental Maladies
\i0  include climate, seasons, age, sex, temperament, trauma (especially during the first menstrual cycle for young women), excessive study, ambition, etc. Again, as in Pinel, the difference between the mentally ill and the mentally stable is one of scale, not of kind.  Everyone has passions \'96 they are why we grieve, fall in love, work for that 'A', make personal sacrifices for our friends and families, etc. \'96 the question of insanity is whether these passions are appropriate or excessive and whether they are directed at an appropriate or inappropriate object.\
According to Esquirol:\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283
\cf0 \'93The first wants of man, limiting themselves to those connected with his preservation and reproduction, provoke the determinations of instinct; an internal impulse leads us to gratify them.\
The secondary wants, attach themselves to the first, and the desires which they excite, acquire as much more energy, as we have means of satisfying them, They produce the primitive passions; in fine, they are the wants which are connected with our preservation; and are the fruit of our increasing intelligence and civilization. They engender the factitious passions,\'97those passions which cause the greatest injury to man, especially in the higher walks of life.\
Infancy, except from the influence of the passions, is almost a stranger to insanity; but at the epoch of puberty, the sentiments, unknown until this period, cause new wants to arise. Insanity then appears, to trouble the first moments of the moral existence of man.\
At mature age, the relations become extended, social wants multiple and the passions take a new character. In proportion as the amorous passions become enfeebled, those of a factitious nature grow strong. Personal interest, ambition, love of distinction and avarice, replace the charms of love and delights of paternity.\
At this period of life also, mental alienation appears; insanity is more obstinate, and more concentrated. It passes more readily into a chronic state; and is more dependent upon abdominal lesions.\
A sense of his weakness, renders the old man more clam; and while meditating upon the errors to which the passions lead, he isolates himself, and becomes an egotist.\
Insanity from a moral cause, rarely exists with him, and when he loses his reason, it is because his organs are fatigued and exhausted. Hence, it is neither mania nor monomania which is developed, at this period, but senile dementia.\
Of all moral causes, those which most frequently produce insanity, are pride, fear, fright, ambition, reverses of fortune, and domestic trouble. This last should have been placed, relative to its great influence, at the head of the moral causes, if it be limited to a simple ideas; but by domesticate troubles, I express all the pains, all the griefs, all oppositions, misfortunes and dissensions that grow out of the family state.\
(
\i Mental Maladies: A Treatise on Insanity
\i0 , p 45-46)\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120
\cf0 Esquirol began to gather around himself a 'circle' of students who are sometimes referred to as the 'mental alienists'. Two of the most famous of his students were Charles Las\'e8gue, who is now credited with working out the first definition of hysteria and documenting
\i  anorexia nervosa
\i0 ; and \'c9tienne-Jean Georget who delineated four sub-types of 'monomania': theomania (religious obsession), ertomania (sexual obsession), demonomania (obsession with evil) and homocidal monomania.\
squirol's concept of monomania sparked what is probably the first recorded wave of copy-cat psychosis.  In November 1825, a young single mother of two named Henriette Cornier, decapitated the 19 month-old child of her neighbors. She had prepared her room for the act, even placing a bucket to catch the blood. She had known the family of the infant for only ten days, and had, up until this event, been nothing but loving and gentle towards the little girl who would be her victim. When the police arrived, she offered no resistance to the police, and did not flee. She confessed, saying that the idea had taken hold of her, and she simply had to act upon it.\
The case became a sensation across Europe. Georget diagnosed her as a 'homicidal monomaniac.' At her trial, the jury decided that the act had
\i  not
\i0  been premediated and as a result, she was sentenced to life in prison with hard labor instead of death. This ruling makes little sense: Cornier admitted that the idea had occurred to her before the event, and she had carefully prepared her room for the murder. Thus, many commentators\'97include Lisa Appengasi (p 75)\'97have attributed the decision to Georget's diagnosis of mental alienation. After all, if Cornier was mentally ill, does pre-planning count as 'premediation'?\
The idea of the murderous monomaniac took off across Europe, informing or appearing in some of the greatest literature of era, including (according to various literary critics) Poe's \'93The Tell-Tale Heart,\'94 the character of Roskolvikov in Dostovesky's
\i  Crime and Punishment
\i0 , and even Heathcliff in Bonte's
\i  Wutherheights.
\i0  The Marquis de Sade is also said to have been a monomaniac.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Beard \'96 American Nervousness\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 George Beard (1839-1883) was an American physician who started out advocating for the use of electricity as a medical intervention.  His first book
\i  Electricity as a Tonic
\i0  (1866) suggested that electricity could be used to cure 'general nervous debility,' including dyspepsia, chorea, neuralgia, anaemia, or amenorrhoea. (1867, p. 73) Beard was a charismatic popular author, who went on to write a series of popular home-healthcare books starting with
\i  Our Home Physician: Handy Book of Family Medicine
\i0  in {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://9ACEAE5D-44AD-483C-8D43-538B6C7E1F09"}}{\fldrslt 1869.}}\
Starting in the 1870s, Beard became increasingly interested in psychological disorders. In 1881, he published
\i  American Nervousness
\i0 , a book that came to define psychological treatment for a generation.  'Nervousness' did not mean then what it means today: jitteriness or tension. Then, it denoted a kind of fundamental exhaustion\'97what we still call a 'nervous breakdown'.  Technically, Beard defined it as:\
\pard\pardeftab709
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\li283
\cf0 \'93deficiency of lack of nerve-force. This condition, together with all the symptoms of diseases that are evolved from it, has developed mainly within the nineteenth century, and is especially frequent and severe in the Northern and Eastern portions of the United States. Nervousness, in the sense here used, is to be distinguished rigidly and systematically from simple excess of emotion and from organic disease.\'94 (1881, p. vi)\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120
\cf0 It was caused by \'93modern civilization, which is distinguished from the ancient by these five characteristics: steam-power, the periodical press, the telegraph, the sciences, and the mental activity of women.\'94 (p. vi)\
Beard was building on both folk theory of innate energy as well as recent discoveries in neurology (compare, for example, the concurrent theory of 'specific sense energies' proposed by  M\'fcller \'96 see the 
\b Error! Reference source not found.
\b0 ). But he extended his view to cover diseases such as \'93neurasthenia (nervous exhaustion... hysteria, hay-fever, sick-headache, inebriety... some and phases of insanity.\'94 (p. vii) whose 'signs' could include:\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283
\cf0 The nervous diathesis; susceptibility to stimulants and narcotics and various drugs, and consequent necessity of temperance; increase of the nervous diseases inebriety and neurasthenia (nervous exhaustion), hay-fever neuralgia, nervous dyspepsia, asthenopia and allied diseases and symptoms; early and rapid decay of teeth; premature baldness; sensitiveness to cold and heat; increase of diseases not exclusively nervous, as diabetes and certain forms of Bright's disease of the kidneys and chronic catarrhs; unprecedented beauty of American women; frequency of trance and muscle-reading; the strain of dentition, puberty and change of life; American oratory, humor speech and language; change in type of disease during the past half century, and the great intensity of animal life on this continent. (p. vii-ix)\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120
\cf0 Beard died shortly after the publication of
\i  American Nervousness,
\i0 but his cause was taken up by Silas Wier Mitchell (1829-1914), who popularized the standard treatment for American Nervousness: the rest cure. As you can probably imagine, if the cause of American Nervousness was modern civilization, including women having a mental life, the cure was removal from modern civilization, including banning women from having a mental life.\
In 1885, at the age of 25, Charlotte Perkins Gilman, a member of a prominent family of American progressives that included the abolitionist author Harriet Beecher Stowe, the suffragist Isabella Beecher Hooker, and the charismatic clergyman Henry Ward Beecher, gave birth to her only child Katharine Beecher Stetson. After the birth, she experienced what we now recognize as a severe case of post-partum depression.\
She was taken to see Silas Wier Mitchell. She described her experience of the treatment she received thus:\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283
\cf0 \'93During about the third year of this trouble I went, in devout faith and some faint stir of hope, to a noted specialist in nervous diseases, the best known in the country.  This wise man put me to bed and applied the rest-cure, to which all still-good physique responded so promptly that he concluded there was nothing much the matter with me, and sent me home with solemn advice to 'live as domestic a life as far as possible,' to 'have but two hours' intellectual life a day' and 'never touch a pen, brush or pencil again' as long as I lived. This was in 1887.\'94 (\'93Why I wrote
\i  The Yellow Wallpaper
\i0 , 1913)\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120
\cf0 Her experiences you may know from the American Standard
\i  The Yellow Wallpaper
\i0  (1892). Gilman acknowledged that she never suffered from the hallucinations the character did, but that she \'93came so near the borderline of mental ruin that I could see over.\'94 (1913)\
While Beard and Wier Mitchell are today often ridiculed as snake-oil salesmen playing on the political concerns over rapid modernization and the suffragist movement, they made a number of notable contributions to our commonsense understanding of psychological disorder. First, they indelibly linked mental disorders to neurology. As mentioned above, we still use phrases like 'nervous breakdown' in common parlance to explain psychological disorder. Second, by proscribing puberty, birth, menopause and the 'unprecedented beauty of American women' as prime causes of mental illness, they further established a link between the onset and frustration of sexuality with mental illness, a point Freud would build his entire theory around.\
It would be a mistake, however, to accept the simplistic narrative that the doctors of this era were manipulating and abusing their female patients without consent. Historians of Psychology Laura C. Ball and Jennifer L. Bazar have recently demonstrated that in some cases, some women aggressive sought out procedures, such as clitorectomies, in this period. In one remarkable case, a patient even 'tormented the doctors to operate {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://2A27D3E5-9CE5-4D12-A02F-07178DD73165"}}{\fldrslt again.'}}\
On way to chart the rise of psychiatric diagnosis is to consider how people with mental illness are counted.  Starting in 1830, the US census included categories for the disabled, including 'blind' and 'deaf.' From 1840-1870, the census included the category 'idiocy/insanity.' Starting in 1880, however, the federal government began using categories of mental illness. In 1880, those categories were:\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth7695\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7695\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\li3\fi87\ri3
\cf0 21 Mental Disease, Insanity\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth7695\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7695\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\li3\fi87\ri3
\cf0       00 Melancholy\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth7695\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7695\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\li3\fi87\ri3
\cf0       01 Mania\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth7695\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7695\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\li3\fi87\ri3
\cf0       02 Hysteria\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth7695\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7695\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\li3\fi87\ri3
\cf0       03 Nerves\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth7695\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7695\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\li3\fi87\ri3
\cf0       04 Dementia\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth7695\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7695\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\li3\fi87\ri3
\cf0       05 Insane (not elsewhere classified)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth7695\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7695\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\li3\fi87\ri3
\cf0 22 Mental Retardation, Idiocy\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth7695\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7695\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\li3\fi87\ri3
\cf0       00 Idiotic\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab709\sb120\sa120

\i \cf0 Table 1: Classifications of 1880\
\pard\pardeftab709

\i0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120
\cf0 Readers of these sections will no doubt recognize this taxonomy as owing an intellectual debt to Esquirol and Beard.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Charcot\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 Charcot began his career at the Salp\'eatri\'e8re tending to the 'incurables'\'97the patients whose conditions had been classified as 'idiocy' or 'dementia.' Charcot saw himself primarily as a nosologist: a classifier or taxonomizer of disease, rather than a healer. His appointment was, in many ways, ideal. This was a patient population for which there was no hope of cure, and morever, had not been studied in a careful way.  \
Charcot is, today, often classified as a neurologist. That is a bit of historicism, as there was no such field when he began work.  In fact, the 'neuron doctrine', or the idea that the nervous system is composed of individual cells called 'neurons,' is not formally advanced until 1891.  And it isn't until 1911 that Ramon y Cajal uses the Golgi stain to highlight neurons in the hippocampus, confirming the neuron doctrine.\
None of that stopped Charcot from classifying a huge number conditions and diseases we still recognize today: multiple sclerosis, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS or \'93Lou Gerig's disease,\'94 it was once called \'93Charcot's disease\'94), lenticulostriate artery (\'93Charcot's artery\'94), joint arthopathy (\'93Charcot's joint\'94), peroneal muscular atrophy (\'93Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease\'94), Charcot Wilbrand syndrome, Charcot's intermittent hepatic fever and even Parkinson's disease were first named or described by Charcot.\
Methodologically, Charcot advocated what he called the 'anatomo-clinical' method, which meant careful anatomical analysis performed largely post-mortum combined with case studies of vivisection in both animals and human subjects. Once a behavioral deficiency has been identified, careful anatomical studies are carried out to determine any corresponding anatomical 'deficiency,' or lesion. In his own words:\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283
\cf0 Allow me to recall to your minds the opinion which that most illustrious physiologist, Claude Bernard, thus expressed:\'97\'93Pathology,\'94 said he, \'93should not he subordinated to physiology. Quite the reverse. Set up first the medical problem which arises from the observation of a malady, and afterwards seek for a physiological explanation. To act otherwise would be to risk overlooking the patient, and distorting the malady.\'94 These are excellent words, which I have ventured to quote verbatim, because they are absolutely significant. They enable us to clearly understand that the whole domain of pathology appertains strictly to the physician, who alone can cultivate it and make it fruitful, and that it necessarily remains closed to the physiologist who, systematically confined within the precincts of his laboratory, disdains the teaching of the hospital ward. (p. 8)\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120
\cf0 In 1878, he began extensive work on hypnosis. Charcot became increasingly interested in the therapeutic use of hypnosis to cure what he called 'hysteria', a vaguely-defined collection of usually transient symptoms that included paralysis, anesthesias, visual or auditory agnosias, temporary blindness or deafness, amnesia and seizures. While 'hysteria' came to be identified closely with women, Charcot himself believed that it could effect men, and treated many men that he diagnosed with hysteria.\
This does not mean, however, that Charcot gave up his commitment to neurological explanations of behavior. He simply allowed functional and/or physiological explanations in addition to the anatomical. In his words:\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283
\cf0 There is another important fact in the history of neuroses in general, and of hysteria in particular, which clearly shows that these diseases do not form, in pathology, a class apart, governed by other physiological laws than the common ones. (13)\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120
\cf0 I've quoted this passage because it is the first use of the word 'neuroses.'  It's root in neurological terminology is obvious, but here Charcot uses itto demarcate transient, psychological, functional or dynamic neurological conditions from the incurable, intransient, anatomical neurological conditions we still classify as medical. 'Neurosis' thus supplants 'mental alienation' and 'nervousness' as the descriptor of the set of psychological conditions that cannot be explained physically.\
In 1890, blocked by antisemitism in Germany from further education, a young Sigmund Freud, came to study with M. Charcot. There, he learned the techniques of hypnosis. Later in life, Freud frequently referred to Charcot as his 'mentor,' and even attributed the idea that all neuroses originate 'in the genitals' to {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://918775A4-A0DB-49A9-9953-59D3CD41ED63"}}{\fldrslt Charcot.}}\
In his eulogy for Charcot, Sigmund Freud said:\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283
\cf0 He was not a reflective man, not a thinker: He had the nature of an artist\'97he was, as he himself said, a 'visuel', a man who sees... He used to look again and again at the things he did not understand, to deepen his impression of them day by day, till suddenly an understanding of them dawned on him.  In his mind's eye the apparent chaos presented by the continual repetition of the same symptoms then ave way to order: the new nosological picture emerged, characterized by the constant combination of certain groups of symptoms... He might be heard to say that the greatest satisfaction a man could have was to see something new-- that is, to recognize it as new; and he remarked against and again n the difficulty and value of this kind of 'seeing'. (Quoted in Mad, Bad and Sad, p. 128)\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120
\cf0 It should be fairly obvious that Freud here is describing, essentially, the Baconian approach to scientific classification. Careful, close observation with only careful, conservative theoretical suppositions. Freud, of course, became famous for his theoretical suppositions later in life. Whereas Charcot was content with describing neuroses and localizing them in the nervous system, Freud sought to explain the origins of neuroses in non-physical terms.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Freud & Breuer\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 By the time the late 19\super th\nosupersub  century arrives, we are beginning to find general agreement that mental illnesses are characterized by symptoms with no bodily, physical (or in Beard's terms 'organic') {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://C26B6AD6-C889-48A1-A6D0-39DA425E8B10"}}{\fldrslt explanation.}} That understanding defined the limits of psychiatry. When a condition could be explained in anatomical terms, it was no longer considered psychiatric and reverted to medical. When it could not\'97when it had to be explained in terms of 'psychic energy\'97it was given to the psychiatrists.\
This thesis was not challenged largely in part because psychiatrists practiced in hospitals that contained psychiatric patients. That sounds circular, but it isn't: Pinel, Esquirol and Charcot were attempting to create a theory of mental illness that could explain the patients they say before them. The patients they saw before them were not brought there because they fit the theory, or because they had chosen to be there. They were brought to the Bic\'eatre and Salp\'eatri\'e8re when the rest of the medical community had given up attempting to explain their symptoms. The same can be said for Beard and Wier Mitchell: Perkins Gilman was taken to see Wier Mitchell only after all physical interventions had failed.\
These founders of psychiatry theorized about a population that had been deemed mentally ill
\i  because the medical community had given up explaining their symptoms
\i0 . Not the other way around. The Psychiatric hospital was a kind of catch-all for those individuals whose symptoms could not be alleviated by physical medicine, and hence it is unsurprising that the definitions of insanity we find in this era require the absence of a physical explanation.\
In 1880, Josef Breuer, a student of the great psycho-physiologist Ewald Hering was studying the ear as a part of his research at Vienna General Hospital. It was there that he first met 'Anna O.', a young woman with an extremely acute cough. Finding no physical reason for the cough, her family physician diagnosed her with \'93typical
\i  tussis nurvosa
\i0  [nervous cough]\'94 (p 27)  Shortly thereafter a number of other symptoms arose. Freud & Breuer describe her case thusly:\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283
\cf0  Before this time she too had always enjoyed good health, showing no sign of nervous indisposition during her development. Of considerable intelligence, remarkably acute powers of reasoning, and a clear-sighted intuitive sense, her powerful mind could have digested, needed even, more substantial intellectual nourishment, but failed to receive it once she had left school. Her rich poetic and imaginative gifts were controlled by a very sharp and critical common sense. The latter also made her quite closed to suggestion. Only arguments had any influence on her, assertions were without effect. Her will was energetic, tenacious and persistent, sometimes heightened to such obstinacy that it would give way only out of kindness and consideration for others.\
One of her principle traits was a sympathetic kindness. Even during her illness, she benefited greatly from the care and support she gave to some sick and poor people, for it allowed her to satisfy a strong drive. Her spirits always tended slightly to exaggeration, whether of joyfulness or grief, and as a consequence she was also somewhat moody. The element of sexuality was remarkably undeveloped: the patient, whose life became transparent to me in a way that seldom happens between people, had never been in love, and not once in the mass of hallucinations that occurred during her illness did this element of the inner life emerge...\
...The course of the illness falls into several distinct phases. They are as follows:\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab709\li720\fi-360
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 A)	Latent incubation. From mid-July 1880 to approximately 10 December. This  case was exceptional because it afforded so complete an insight into a phase that in most cases escapes us, and for this reason alone its pathological interest could not be overestimated. I will expound on this part of the history later.\
B)	Manifest illness: a peculiar kind of psychosis, paraphasia,
\i  stabismus convergens
\i0  [convergent squint], sever visual disturbance, paralyzing contractures, complete paralysis in the upper right and both lower extremities, partial paralysis in the upper left extremity, paresis of the neck muscles. A gradual reduction in the contracture of the right extremities. Some improvement, interrupted by a sever psychical trauma (death of the father) in April, after which\
C)	A period of continual somnambulism ensues, which then alternates with more normal states; continuation of a series of chronic symptoms until December 1881.\
D)	Gradual winding down of mental states and symptoms until June 1882. (p25-26)\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120
\cf0 Breuer took over her care during the period of 'manifest illness,'  during which, Anna O. slept for great periods of time ('somnambulism'), but when she awoke in the evening, she would complain of 'torment.' Her speech lost all grammatical structure ('paraphasia') and she would piece together words and phrases from the five distinct languages she spoke, producing an incomprehensible jargon. This same jargon appeared in writing, so Breuer knew that it was not a disfunction of the physical mechanism of speech.\
In the early spring of 1881, Anna O fell mute for a period of two weeks. At this point, Breuer claims that he \'93knew she had taken great offense at something and had resolved to say nothing about it. When I guessed as much and forced her to talk about it, the inhibition, which had until then made it impossible for her to speak about anything else either, disappeared.\'94 (p 29)\
After her father's death, her illness became much more severe. Breuer noticed, however, that her periods of sleep in the later afternoon, during which she was 'tormented' by hallucinations, resembled hypnotic states.  He decided to preemptively hypnotize her and prompt her to 'talk through' these tormenting phantasies. The symptoms subsided quickly.  The day after a session, she would become 'quite calm' and 'agreeable, obedient, industrious and even in good spirits'. The second day after a session she would be 'increasingly moody, contrary and disagreeable, and this worsened on the third.'  Anna O. named these sessions (in English) the '
\i talking cure
\i0 ' and '
\i chimney-sweeping.
\i0 '  Breuer preferred the more sophisticated 'cathartic procedure.'\
Breuer communicated this to his friend Sigmund Freud, who offered to co-author a paper laying out his findings. That paper, titled 'The Psychic Mechanism of Hysterical Phenomena,' first appeared in 1893, but was republished as the first chapter of Freud and Breuer's
\i  Studies on Hysteria
\i0  (1895). In it, Freud and Breuer propose a new form of hysteria, called 'traumatic hysteria', which they conjecture is always connected to some traumatic event that evokes the syndrome. They further hypothesize that the traumatic event can be unavailable to the conscious, reflective mind of patient\'97i.e. be unconscious\'97yet still be causally responsible for the hysterical symptoms.  Moreover, they hypothesize that making the patient aware of the trauma, via Beuer's 'cathartic procedure' using hypnosis if necessary, alleviates the hysteria.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Freud: The foundation of psychoanalysis\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 The seeds of psychoanalysis were planted by Charcot and Breuer, but they did not develop into a full-fledged system of Psychiatry until Freud worked independently. Building on his theory of unconscious trauma to explain hysteria, Freud hypothesizes that traumatic events may manifest themselves in the mind indirectly in the form of symbols. He then went on to realize that the fantasy lives of the psychotic are full of such symbols, and recovering the original trauma requires investigation of the mechanisms of symbolization.\
It was this realization that gives us the basis for psychoanalysis, for it is this realization that allows Freud to argue that the hallucinations and fantasies experiences by the psychotic are not significantly different from the dreams of the sane. Whereas prior to Freud, dreams and hallucinations were thought to be without meaning, after Freud they were seen as full of symbolic representations, the meanings of which were available empirically through systematic investigation of the mechanisms of psychological representation. Freud's proposed mechanisms are introduced in the '
\b Error! Reference source not found.
\b0 ' section on page 
\b Error! Bookmark not defined.
\b0   of the game book.\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\fi-283

\fs20 \cf0 The barrier between the mentally ill and the mentally healthy had been permanently {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://71500CD8-6098-48C9-8EC5-6E08B78BDE6F"}}{\fldrslt broken.}} No longer does the theory of psychiatry apply
\i  only
\i0  to those who cannot be helped by medicine. Now the theory applies to everyone: a healthy person could become ill through unhealthy habits of mental representation, and ill people could become healthy through the process of discovering their habits of mental representation and recognizing their unconscious traumas.  \
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\fs24 \cf0 This conflation of psychiatric conditions and normal life left Freud in the precarious position of having to define 'mental illness.'  He did so thus:\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283
\cf0 Symptoms\'97and of course we are dealing now with psychical (or psychogenic) symptoms and psychical illness\'97are acts detrimental, or at least useless, to the subject's life as a whole, often complained by him as unwelcome and bringing unpleasure or suffering to him. (
\i Introductory Lecture
\i0 , p. 445)\
\pard\pardeftab709

\b \cf0 Neurosis v. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://70B7416D-C442-428B-9BA5-9179A775180C"}}{\fldrslt Psychosis}}
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120
\cf0 One of the hallmarks of Freud's theory is his thesis that the there is no hard and fast distinction to be made between the mentally ill and the mentally healthy. His
\i  Introductory Lectures
\i0  are structured to introduce the reader to psychopathology in everyday life before extending the analysis of common activities to psychotics and neurotic patients.  As such, there are no hard and fast definitions of psychosis and neurosis.\
During the course of normal development of mentally healthy adults, the ego must become 'reasonable': it must no longer let \'93itself be governed by the pleasure principle, but obeys the
\i  reality principle
\i0 , which also at bottom seeks to obtain pleasure, but pleasure which is assured through taking account of reality, even though it is pleasure postponed and diminished.\'94 (p. 444) A neurotic's ego fails to make this transition, and gets stuck at one point in development.  Thus, the neurotic's libido and ego are still struggling in a child-like way, but the contents of the struggle have been transformed into objects of adulthood. Neurotic symptoms are the \'93outcome of a conflict which arises over a new method of satisfying the libido\'94 (p. 446) and a person is ill from neurosis only if \'93his ego has lost the capacity to allocate his libido in some way\'94 (p. 480). A psychotic patient, however, has lost the battle for the reality principle, and the libido has created its own reality.\
The object of a neurosis, then, is relevant to the diagnosis only insofar as it is a stand-in for the actual conflict by the mechanisms of repression, reaction formation, isolation, etc.  According to Freud: \'93clinical psychiatry takes little notice of the outward form or content of individual symptoms, but psychoanalysis takes matters up at precisely that point and has established in the first place the fact that symptoms have a sense and are related to the patient's experience.\'94 (p. 318)\
See Lectures 22 and 23 of the
\i  Introductory Lectures
\i0  for a full discussion of neurosis and its origins.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 The Clark Lectures\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\fi-283

\f1\b0\fs20 \cf0 In 1909, G. Stanley Hall, first president of the American Psychological Association, invited Freud and Jung to give a series of lectures at Clark University. The conference itself was a major moment in the intellectual history of America, as such luminaries as William James, Franz Boas, Adolf Meyer and E.B. Tichner were in attendance, as well as the famed Anarchist Emma {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://9D010641-A4F9-48BE-8F3D-FC76EF27725F"}}{\fldrslt Goldman.}}\
After the lectures, James Jackson Putnam, a neurologist in New York City, invited Freud and Jung to retire to his family's Adirondack 'great camp' for the weekend.  Putnam became an important advocate for psychoanalysis in the United States, establishing its legitimacy as a treatment for hysteria. While there are articles prior to 1909 on psychoanalysis (notably one by Putnam himself in 1906), we don't find significant discussion of  psychoanalysis in the mainstream journals of Psychology until after the Clark {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://ECDEFBAF-6B7A-4AD8-A5B0-700DF777551F"}}{\fldrslt lectures.}} An effort to convince the American public of the scientific nature of psychoanalysis was mounted by Putnam camp attendees A.A. Brill, founder of the New York Psychoanalytic Society, and Ernest Jones, student of Freud. By 1916, Jones had published 20 articles, notes and reviews in the Journal of Abnormal Psychology offering or advocating for {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://4A77B6E2-3E77-4737-93BA-357A8F92B00A"}}{\fldrslt psychoanalysis.}}\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\fs24 \cf0 Putnam and Freud went on to become close friends, and Putnam spent much of the rest of his career attempting to professionalize and regularize the practice of psychiatry. He founded the American Psychoanalytic Association (APsaA) in 1911, which is still active today. His posthumously published
\i  Addresses on Psychoanalysis
\i0 , which contains a preface by Freud himself, not only seeks to introduce Freudian theory to his scientific community, but also to dispel misunderstanding gained \'93through the gossip of prejudice and misconception\'94 (Putnam & Jones, 1921, p. 3).\
Putnam\'92s influence here cannot be understated. Putnam introduced psychoanalytic ideas to the budding field of medical neurology. His position as a medical doctor at Harvard gave psychoanalysis legitimacy as a medical practice in America, and his stature in the neurological community helped to assuage any doubts about the lack of a physical basis for the hypothetical entities posited by Freud's structural hypothesis.\
The story is not all smooth sailing. In 1916, the Princeton philosopher and psychologist Warren Fite reviewed of Jung's
\i  Psychology of the Unconscious
\i0  for
\i  The Nation,
\i0  writing that it \'93\cf3 presents some five hundred-odd pages of incoherence and obscenity in the form of a psycho-analytic interpretation of the experiences of a sentimental young American woman\cf0 .\'94 (Fite, 1916) The fact that the United States was at war with Germany didn't help the psychoanalytic cause: Christine Ladd-Franklin, a student of C.S. Peirce and protege of no less than Hermann Helmholtz as well as one of the first women in the APA, called Freud's theory the product of an \'93undeveloped... German mind.\'94\
What followed is a history of tension between those in the psychological and psychoanalytic communities. Helped by the military's preference for psychoanalysts in the treatment of 'shell-shock' during WWI and 'combat fatigue' in WWII, psychoanalysis gained credibility in the eyes of the American {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://E00182A8-3CA1-49DD-8AD0-E057EBF864BF"}}{\fldrslt public.}}\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 The DSMs\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 In 1917 during its annual meeting in New York, the American Medico-Psychological Association (now the American Psychiatric Association) in cooperation with the National Commission on Mental Hygiene formed a committee on statistics and charged it with creating a guide for classifying mental illness. The resulting document,
\i  Statistical Manual for the Use of Institutions for the Insane
\i0 , was published in 1918 and adopted around the nation. It is available freely on google books. The manual outlined 21 medical-psychological categories:\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth7695\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3564\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth4131\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\li3\fi58\ri3
\cf0 1. Traumatic psychoses\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 (a) Traumatic delirium\
(b) Traumatic constitutional\
(c) Post-traumatic mental enfeeblement (dementia)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth7695\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3564\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth4131\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\li3\fi58\ri3
\cf0 2. Senile psychoses\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 (a) simple deterioration\
(b) Presbyophrenic type\
(c) Delirious and confused types\
(d) Depressed and agitated states in addition to deterioration\
(e) Paranoid types\
(f) Pre-senile types\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth7695\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3564\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth4131\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\li3\fi58\ri3
\cf0 3. Psychoses with cerebral arteriosclerosis\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth7695\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3564\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth4131\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\li3\fi58\ri3
\cf0 4. General paralysis\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth7695\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3564\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth4131\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\li3\fi58\ri3
\cf0 5. Psychoses with cerebral syphilis\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth7695\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3564\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth4131\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\li3\fi58\ri3
\cf0 6. Psychoses with Huntington's chorea\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth7695\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3564\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth4131\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\li3\fi58\ri3
\cf0 7. Psychoses with brain tumor\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth7695\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3564\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth4131\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\li3\fi58\ri3
\cf0 8. Psychoses with other brain or nervous diseases\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 The following are the more frequent affections and should be specified in the diagnosis\
     Cerebral embolism\
     Paralysis agitans\
     Meningitis, tubercular or other forms\
        (to be specified)\
     Multiple sclerosis\
     Tabes\
     Acute chorea\
     Other conditions (to be specified)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth7695\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3564\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth4131\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\li3\fi58\ri3
\cf0 9. Alcoholic psychoses\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 (a) Pathological intoxication\
(b) Delirium tremens\
(c) Korsakow's psychosis\
(d) Acute hallucinosis\
(e) Chronic hallucinosis\
(f) Acute paranoid type\
(g) Chronic paranoid type\
(h) Alcoholic deterioration\
(I) Other types, acute or chronic\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth7695\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3564\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth4131\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\li3\fi58\ri3
\cf0 10. Psychoses due to drugs or other exogenous toxins\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 (a) Opium (and derivatives), cocaine, bromides, chloral, etc. alone or combined (to be specified)\
(b) Metals, as lead, arsenic, etc. (to be specified)\
(c) Gases (to be specified)\
(d) Other exogenous toxins (to be specified)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth7695\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3564\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth4131\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\li3\fi58\ri3
\cf0 11. Psychoses with pellagra\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth7695\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3564\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth4131\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\li3\fi58\ri3
\cf0 12. Psychoses with other somatic diseases\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 (a) Delirium with infectious diseases\
(b) Post-infectious psychosis\
(c) Exhaustion-delirium\
(d) Delirium of unknown origin\
(e) Cardio-renal diseases\
(f) Disease of the ductless glands\
(g) Other diseases or conditions (to be specified)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth7695\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3564\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth4131\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\li3\fi58\ri3
\cf0 13. Manic-depressive psychoses\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 (a) Manic type\
(b) Depressive type\
(c) Stupor\
(d) Mixed type\
(e) Circular type\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth7695\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3564\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth4131\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\li3\fi58\ri3
\cf0 14. Involution melancholia\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth7695\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3564\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth4131\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\li3\fi58\ri3
\cf0 15. Dementia praecox\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 (a) Paranoid type\
(b) Catatonic type\
(c) Hebephrenic type\
(d) Simple type\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth7695\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3564\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth4131\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\li3\fi58\ri3
\cf0 16. Paranoia or paranoic conditions\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth7695\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3564\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth4131\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\li3\fi58\ri3
\cf0 17. Epileptic psychoses\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 (a) Deterioration\
(b) Clouded states\
(c) Other conditions (to be specified)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth7695\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3564\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth4131\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\li3\fi58\ri3
\cf0 18. Psychoneuroses and neuroses\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 (a) Hysterical type\
(b) Psychasthenic type\
(c) Neurasthenic type\
(d) Anxiety neuroses\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth7695\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3564\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth4131\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\li3\fi58\ri3
\cf0 19. Psychoses with constitutional psychopathic inferiority\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth7695\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3564\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth4131\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\li3\fi58\ri3
\cf0 20. Psychoses with mental deficiency\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth7695\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3564\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth4131\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\li3\fi58\ri3
\cf0 21. Undiagnosed psychoses\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth7695\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3564\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth4131\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\li3\fi58\ri3
\cf0 22. Not insane\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 (a) Epilepsy without psychosis\
(b) Alcoholism with psychosis\
(c) Drug addition without psychosis\
(d) Constitutional psychopathic inferiority without psychosis\
(e) Mental deficiency without psychosis\
(f) Others (to be specified)\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab709\sb120\sa120

\i \cf0 Table 2: Statistical Manual for the Use of Institutions for the Insane classification of insanity, 1918\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\i0 \cf0 In 1928, the New York Academy of Medicine invited the Public Health Service, the Army and Navy Medical Departments and the American Hospital Association to collaborate on a standard nomenclature of disease. That standard was first published in 1933 as
\i  A Standard Classified Nomenclature of Disease
\i0 , generally referred to as
\i  The Standard
\i0 , and was widely used until at least the 1960s. In its original form, it used the following ten categories:\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth7709\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7709\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 0 Diseases due to prenatal influences\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth7709\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7709\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 1 Diseases due to lower plant and animal parasites\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth7709\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7709\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 2 Diseases due to higher plant and animal parasites\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth7709\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7709\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 3 Diseases due to intoxication\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth7709\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7709\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 4 Diseases due to trauma or physical agents\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth7709\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7709\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 5.0 Diseases due to circulatory disturbances\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth7709\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7709\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 5.5 Diseases due to disturbances of innervation or of psychic control\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth7709\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7709\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 6 Diseases due to or consisting of static mechanical abnormality (obstruction; calculus; displacement and gross changes in form etc., due to unknown cause).\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth7709\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7709\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 7 Diseases due to disorders of metabolism, growth or nutrition\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth7709\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7709\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 8 New growths\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth7709\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7709\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 9 Diseases due to unknown or uncertain causes, the structural reaction (generative, infiltrative, inflammatory, proliferate, sclerotic, or reparative) to which is manifest; and hereditary and familial diseases of this nature.\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth7709\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7709\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 X Diseases due to unknown or uncertain causes, the functional reaction to which is alone manifest; and hereditary and familial diseases of this nature.\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab709\sb120\sa120

\i \cf0 Table 3: Standard Classified Nomenclature classification of disease, 1933\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\i0 \cf0 You'll notice that the medical classification is entirely based on the origin or cause of a condition, not the symptoms.  The opposite appears to be true of the psychiatric classification.\
During the WWII, psychiatrists classified patients according to the standards of the branch of the armed forces for which they worked. In 1943, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brigadier_General_(United_States)"}}{\fldrslt Brigadier General}} William C. Menninger issued a bulletin called \'93Medical 203\'94 that laid the foundations for medical classification of mental illness. The Navy, Army and Veterans affairs branches all used slightly different diagnostic criteria and classifications.\
In 1949, the International Statistical Classification of Diseases (ICD) included, for the first time, a taxonomy of mental disorders. Its classification system was:\
\pard\pardeftab709

\f2\fs26 \cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709

\f1\b\fs24 \cf0 (300-309)
\b0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709

\b \cf0 Psychoses
\b0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 300\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Schizophrenic disorders (dementia praecox)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 300.0\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Simple type\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 300.1\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Hebephrenic type\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 300.2\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Catatonic type\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 300.3\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Paranoid type\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 300.4\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Acute schizophrenic reaction\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 300.5\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Latent schizophrenia\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 300.6\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Schizo-affective psychosis\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 300.7\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Other and unspecified\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 301\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Manic-depressive reaction\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 301.0\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Manic and circular\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 301.1\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Depressive\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 301.2\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Other\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 302\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Involutional melancholia\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 303\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Paranoia and paranoid states\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 304\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Senile psychosis\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 305\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Presenile psychosis\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 306\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Psychosis with cerebral arteriosclerosis\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 307\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Alcoholic psychosis\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 308\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Psychosis of other demonstrable aetiology\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 308.0\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Resulting from brain tumour\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 308.1\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Resulting from epilepsy and other convulsive      disorders\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 308.2\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Other\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 309\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Other and unspecified psychoses\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709

\b \cf0 (310-318)
\b0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709

\b \cf0 Psychoneurotic disorders
\b0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 310\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Anxiety reaction without mention of somatic symptoms\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 311\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Hysterical reaction without mention of anxiety reaction\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 312\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Phobic reaction\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 313\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Obsessive-compulsive reaction\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 314\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Neurotic-depressive reaction\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 315\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Psychoneurosis with somatic symptoms (somatisation reaction) affecting circulatory system\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 315.0\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Neurocirculatory asthenia\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 315.1\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Other heart manifestations specified as of psychogenic origin\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 315.2\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Other circulatory manifestations of psychogenic origin\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 316\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Psychoneurosis with somatic symptoms (somatisation reaction) affecting digestive system\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 316.0\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Mucous colitis specified as of psychogenic origin\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 316.1\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Irritability of colon specified as of psychogenic origin\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 316.2\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Gastric neuroses\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 316.3\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Other digestive manifestations specified as of psychogenic origin\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 317\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Psychoneurosis with somatic symptoms (somatisation reaction) affecting other systems\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 317.0\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Psychogenic reactions affecting respiratory system\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 317.1\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Psychogenic reactions affecting genito-urinary system\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 317.2\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Pruritus of psychogenic origin\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 317.3\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Other cutaneous neuroses\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 317.4\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Psychogenic reactions affecting musculoskeletal system\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 317.5\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Psychogenic reactions affecting other systems\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 318\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Psychoneurotic disorders, other, mixed and unspecified types\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 318.0\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Hypochondriacal reaction\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 318.1\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Depersonalisation\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 318.2\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Occupational neurosis\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 318.3\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Asthenic reaction\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 318.4\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Mixed\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 318.5\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Of other and unspecified types\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709

\b \cf0 (320-326)
\b0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709

\b \cf0 Disorders of character, behaviour, and intelligence
\b0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 320\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Pathological personality\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 320.0\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Schizoid personality\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 320.1\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Paranoid personality\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 320.2\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Cyclothymic personality\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 320.3\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Inadequate personality\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 320.4\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Antisocial personality\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 320.5\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Asocial personality\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 320.6\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Sexual deviation\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 320.7\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Other and unspecified\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 321\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Immature personality\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 321.0\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Emotional instability\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 321.1\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Passive dependency\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 321.2\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Aggressiveness\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 321.3\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Enuresis characterising immature personality\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 321.4\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Other symptomatic habits except speech impediments\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 321.5\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Other and unspecified\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 322\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Alcoholism\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 322.0\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Acute\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 322.1\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Chronic\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 322.2\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Unspecified\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 323\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Other drug addiction\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 324\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Primary childhood behaviour disorders\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 325\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Mental deficiency\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 325.0\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Idiocy\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 325.1\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Imbecility\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 325.2\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Moron\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 325.3\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Borderline intelligence\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 325.4\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Mongolism\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 325.5\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Other and unspecified types\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 326\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Other and unspecified character, behaviour and intelligence disorders\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 326.0\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Specific learning defects\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 326.1\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Stammering and stuttering of non-organic origin\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 326.2\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Other speech impediments of non-organic origin\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 326.3\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Acute situational maladjustment\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1433\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7927\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 326.4\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Other and unspecified\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab709\sb120\sa120

\i \cf0 Table 4: ICD-6 classification of mental diseases, 1949\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\i0 \cf0 In the interest of unifying these different classification schema, the American Psychiatric Association voted to create the first Diagnostic and Statistical Manual (DSM). The nomenclature committee adapted the Medical 203 bulletin into the DSM and circulated it to a randomly selected sample of the membership (10%). When it was overwhelmingly approved by those who replied, the APA adopted it as the standard for diagnosis in medical treatment of psychological disorders. It was published in 1952, and is available online at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.psychiatryonline.com/DSMPDF/dsm-i.pdf"}}{\fldrslt http://www.psychiatryonline.com/DSMPDF/dsm-i.pdf}}\
The first DSM distinguished between \'93Disorders caused by or associated with impairment of brain tissue function,\'94 \'93Mental Deficiency,\'94  \'93Disorders of psychogenic origin or without clearly defined physical cause or structural change in the brain\'94 and \'93Nondiagnostic Terms for Hospital Record.\'94  This fourth category included \'93Alcoholic intoxication (simple drunkenness),\'94 and \'93Dead on admission.\'94  It is the third category, those without a physical cause, that is of the most interest to us (the corresponding category of the ICD-6 is included in the right most column):\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clmgf \clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth9360\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clmrg \clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth9360\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clmrg \clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth9360\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709

\b \cf0 Psychotic Disorders
\b0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clmgf \clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7513\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clmrg \clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7513\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 --7\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Disorders due to disturbance of metabolism, growth, nutrition or endocrine function\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 000-796\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Involuntary psychotic reaction\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (302)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clmgf \clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7513\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clmrg \clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7513\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 --x\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Disorders of psychogenic origin or without clearly defined tangible cause or structural change\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 000-x10\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Affective reactions\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (301.2)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x11\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Manic depressive reaction, manic type\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (301.0)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x12\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Manic depressive reaction, depressive type\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (301.1)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x13\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Manic depressive reaction, other\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (301.2)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x14\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Psychotic depressive reaction\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (309.0)*\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 000-x20\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Schizophrenic reactions\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (300.7)*\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x21\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Schizophrenic reaction, simple type\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (300.0)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x22\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Schizophrenic reaction, hebephrenic type\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (300.1)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x23\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Schizophrenic reaction, catatonic type\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (300.2)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x24\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Schizophrenic reaction, paranoid type\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (300.3)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x25\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Schizophrenic reaction, acute undifferentiated type\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (300.4)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x26\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Schizophrenic reaction, chronic undifferentiated type\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (300.7)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x27\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Schizophrenic reaction, schizo-affective type\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (300.6)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x28\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Schizophrenic reaction, childhood type\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (300.8)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x29\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Schizophrenic reaction, residual type\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (300.5)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 000-x30\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Paranoid reactions\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (303)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x31\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Paranoia\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (303)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x32\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Paranoid state\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (303)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 000-xy0\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Psychotic reaction without clearly defined structural change, other than above\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (309.1)*\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clmgf \clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth9360\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clmrg \clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth9360\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clmrg \clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth9360\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709

\b \cf0 Psychophysiologic autonomic and visceral disorders
\b0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clmgf \clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7513\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clmrg \clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7513\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 --55\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Disorders due to disturbance of innervation or of psychic control\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 001-580\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Psychophysiologic skin reaction\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (317.3)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 002-580\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Psychophysiologic musculoskeletal reaction\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (317.4)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 003-580\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Psychophysiologic respiratory reaction\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (317.0)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 004-580\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Psychophysiologic cardiovascular reaction\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (315.2)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 005-580\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Psychophysiologic hemic and lympathic reaction\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (317.5)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 006-580\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Psychophysiologic gastrointestinal reaction\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (316.3)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 007-580\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Psychophysiologic genito-urinary reaction\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (317.1)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 008-580\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Psychophysiologic endocrine reaction\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (317.5)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 009-580\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Psychophysiologic nervous system reaction\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (318.3)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 00x-580\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Psychophysiologic reaction of organs of special sense\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (317.5)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clmgf \clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth9360\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clmrg \clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth9360\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clmrg \clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth9360\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709

\b \cf0 Psychoneurotic Disorders
\b0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clmgf \clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7513\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clmrg \clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7513\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 --x\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Disorders of psychogenic origin or without clearly defined tangible cause of structural change\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 000-x00\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Psychoneurotic reactions\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (318.5)*\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x01\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Anxiety reaction\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (310)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x02\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Dissociative reaction\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (311)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x03\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Conversion reaction\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (311)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x04\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Phobic reaction\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (312)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x05\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Obsessive compulsive reaction\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (313)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x06\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Depressive reaction\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (314)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x0y\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Psychoneurotic reaction, other\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (318.5*)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clmgf \clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth9360\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clmrg \clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth9360\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clmrg \clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth9360\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709

\b \cf0 Personality Disorders
\b0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clmgf \clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7513\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clmrg \clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth7513\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 --x\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Disorders of psychogenic origin or without clearly defined tangible cause of structural change\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 000-x40\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Personality pattern disturbance\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (320.7)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x41\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Inadequate personality\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (320.3)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x42\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Schizoid personality\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (320.0)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x43\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Cyclothymic personality\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (320.2)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x44\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Paranoid personality\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (320.1)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 000-x50\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Personality trait disturbance\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (321.5)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x51\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Emotionally unstable personality\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (321.0)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x52\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Passive-aggressive personality\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (321.1)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x53\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Compulsive personality\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (321.5)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x54\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Personality trait disturbance, other\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (321.5)*\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 000-x60\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Sociopathic personality disturbance\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (320.7)*\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x61\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Antisocial reaction\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (320.4)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x62\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Dyssocial reaction\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (320.5)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x63\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Sexual deviation.
\i  Specify supplementary term
\i0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (320.6)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x64\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Addiction\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0          000-x641\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0           Alcoholism\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (322.1)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0          000-x642\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0           Drug addiction\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (323)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 000-x70\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Special symptom reactions\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (321.4)*\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x71\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Learning disturbance\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (326.0)*\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x72\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Speech disturbance\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (326.2)*\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x73\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Enuresis\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (321.3)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x74\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Somnambulism\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (321.4)\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x7y\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Other\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (321.4)*\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clmgf \clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth9360\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clmrg \clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth9360\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clmrg \clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth9360\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709

\b \cf0 Transient Situational Personality Disorders
\b0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 000-x80\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0 Transient situational personality disturbance\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (326.4)*\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x81\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Gross stress reaction\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (326.3)*\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x82\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Adult situational reaction\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (326.6)*\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x83\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Adjustment reaction of infancy\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (324.0)*\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x84\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Adjustment reaction of childhood\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (324.1)*\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0          000-x841\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0           Habit disturbance\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (324.1)*\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0          000-x842\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0           Conduct disturbance\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (324.1)*\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0          000-x843\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0           Neurotic disturbance\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (324.1)*\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x85\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Adjustment reaction of adolescence\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (324.2)*\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth9360\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1847\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx2880
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth6066\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx5760
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1447\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf2 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf0 \clpadt55 \clpadl55 \clpadb55 \clpadr55 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      000-x86\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709
\cf0      Adjustment reaction of late life\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab709\qr
\cf0 (326.5)*\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab709\sb120\sa120

\i \cf0 Table 5: DSM-I Classification of mental disorders, 1952\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\i0 \cf0 \
The APA published the revised DSM-II in 1968. It's classification is included as an appendix.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 The Rise of Psychopharmacology\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 Because psychoanalysis tended to be confined to clinical, military settings in the US, a kind of stable truce\'97one might even say a 'cold war'--settled over the conflict between behaviorism and psychoanalysis. By and large, psychoanalysis confined itself to the medical setting; while behaviorism confined itself to pure research. There were, no doubt, volleys across the bow of one or the other from time to time. But until Skinner's wide-ranging proposals for behaviorism as social reformation, there were few open hostilities.\
Much of the scientific credibility for psychoanalysis turned on its success in treating psychotic patients.  Medical Doctors tend not to worry so much about the putative mechanism of a therapy, so long as that therapy works for the individual patient in question.  It isn't uncommon for a drug to help some small portion of the population and fail with another.  Generalizations to universal laws are uncommon in the practice of medicine, and much the of time the cause of a certain medical condition remains unknown, even if we understand how to cure it (consider cancers like lymphoma, for example). Thus, when psychologists objected that psychoanalysis did not generalize, its mechanisms were untestable, and as a treatment it was highly individualistic, medical practitioners were not overly impressed.  \
All of that changed starting in 1955 when Wallace Labs began marketing the world's first popular psychotropic for the treatment of anxiety: Miltown. The Wallace Lab claimed that Miltown controlled anxiety without reducing mental function, allowing patients to return to their normal lives. It was quickly followed by Trofranil, an antidepressant, in 1959; Librium, an anti-anxiety medication, in 1960; and Valium in 1963.\
These drugs did\'97in short order\'97what years of psychoanalysis, hypnosis, electro-shock therapy (the decedent of Beard's treatments) and confinement could not: they allowed patients with crippling anxiety to return to normal or close-to-normal functioning.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Setting the stage for 1971\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 Since the origin of psychiatry, there has been a distinction made between those disorders that can be directly attributable to a biological dysfunction of the brain and those that cannot. The former were classified as 'neurological,' and the latter 'psychiatric.'  It is this inability to find a biological etiology of the disorder defines the domain of psychiatry.\
As it becomes increasingly clear that psycho-pharmaceuticals have an effect on disorders once believed to be independent of the biology of the brain, what will happen to the field of psychiatry?\
In 1961... Midtown Manhattan Study... (Review: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://jama.jamanetwork.com/article.aspx?articleid=1161943"}}{\fldrslt http://jama.jamanetwork.com/article.aspx?articleid=1161943}})\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120

\f0\i\b \cf0 References:\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283

\f1\i0\b0 \cf0 Arieti, S. (1974).
\i  American handbook of psychiatry
\i0  (2d ed.). New York,: Basic Books.\
Bacon, F., L. Jardine, et al. (2000).\ul  The new organon\ulnone . Cambridge [U.K.] ; New York, Cambridge University Press.\
Beard, G. (1867). "Electricity as a Tonic in Anemia, Dyspepsia and General Debility."\ul  The Retrospect of Medicine
\b \ulnone  55
\b0 : 73-75.\
Beard, G. (1881).\ul  American nervousness, its causes and consequences.\ulnone   \
Ball, L. C. and J. L. Bazar (2010). "'I tormented the doctors to operate again': A look at patient decisions and the history of sexual surgeries."\ul  Time Capsule
\b \ulnone  41
\b0 (11): 26.\
Breuer, J., S. Freud, et al. (1957).\ul  Studies on hysteria\ulnone , Basic Books.\
Esquirol, E., Hunt, E. K., & New York Academy of Medicine. Library. (1965).
\i  Mental maladies; a treatise on insanity
\i0 . New York,: Hafner Pub. Co.\
Fite, W. (1916). "Psycho-analysis and Sex-psychology."\ul  The Nation
\b \ulnone  103
\b0 : 127-129.\
Freud, S. and A. A. Brill (1938).\ul  The basic writings of Sigmund Freud\ulnone . New York,, The Modern library.\
Gorwitz, K.(1974). \'93Census Enumeration of the Mentally Ill and the Mentally Retarded in the Nineteenth Century.\'94\ul  Health Services Reports\ulnone   
\b 89
\b0 (2): 180-187.\
Hobbes, T. and E. M. Curley (1994).\ul  Leviathan : with selected variants from the Latin edition of 1668\ulnone . Indianapolis, Hackett Pub. Co.\
Houts, A. (2000) \'93Fifty years of psychiatric nomenclature: reflections on the 1943 War Department Technical Bulletin, Medical 203.\'94
\i  Journal of clinical psychology
\i0  56(7):925-34.\
Hornstein, G. A. (2002). The Return of the Repressed: Psychology's Problematic Relations with Psychoanalysis, 1909-1960.\ul  Evolving Perspectives on the History of Psychology\ulnone . W. E. Pickren and D. A. Dewsbury. Washington, DC, The American Psychological Association.\
Marx, K.F.H (1846) The Moral Aspects of Medical Life: Consisting of the 'Akesios' of Professor K.F.H. Marx. Translated by James Mackness John Churchill, London\
Menninger, R. W. and J. C. Nemiah (2000).\ul  American Psychiatry after World War II (1944-1994)\ulnone , American Psychiatric Pub.\
Murphey, G. (1949).
\i  Historical Introduction to Modern Psychology
\i0 , Harcourt, Brace and Company, New York.\
Pinel, P. (1806).
\i  A treatise on insanity
\i0 : Printed by W. Todd for Cadell and Davies.\
Prochnik, G. (2006)
\i  The Putnam Camp: Sigmund Freud, James Jackson Putnam, and the Purpose of American Psychology
\i0  Other Press.\
Stein, D. J. (2008).\ul  Philosophy of Psychopharmacology\ulnone . Cambridge, Cambridge.\
Unknown. (1933). A Standard Classified Nomenclature of Disease. The Canadian Medical Association Journal p. 193-194\
}