{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldItalicMT;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f4\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;\f5\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf0 ### Brief History of \'93mental illness\'94
\f0\i0\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 \
What makes a certain condition a \'91mental\'92 condition or a 'medical' or even \'92neurological\'92 condition?  Suppose you are a family doctor, and a patient presents with an unwelcome and unwanted problem---a twitch, perhaps. Do you call a psychiatrist or a neurologist? How do you know?
\f0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0
\cf0 While behaviors associated with mental illness---hallucinations, catatonic states, mania, etc.---have been known since ancient times, psychiatry dates its regularization as a scientific discipline to the work of the French physician `\\index[gamebook]\{Pinel, Philippe\}`\{=latex\}Philipe Pinel. His
\f4\i  *Trait\'e9 m\'e9dico-philosophique sur l'ali\'e9nation mentale; ou la manie*
\f3\i0  stands as the first attempt at a scientific classification of mental illness. The book, translated as
\f4\i  *Treatise on Insanity*
\f3\i0  in 1806 by D.D. Davis, is excerpted in Appendix 
\f5\b `\\fullref\{app: pinel\}`\{=latex\}
\f3\b0 .  
\f0 \

\f3 \
Pinel was an intellectual disciple of `\\index[gamebook]\{de Condillac, \'c9tienne Bonnot\}`\{=latex\}\'c9tienne Bonnot de Condillac, who in turn, was a disciple of the English empiricist `\\index[gamebook]\{Locke, John\}`\{=latex\}John {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://3C331A63-E57A-4032-9CF4-36ACE9DB924B"}}{\fldrslt Locke.}} Locke is most well known as the intellectual progenitor of the American Constitution, but his views on the nature of mind and the empirical basis of knowledge held sway over much of the Western intellectual world in the first half of the 19\super th\nosupersub  century.  Locke's influence on Condillac and hence Pinel was two-fold: first, he held that all our ideas originate in sensation and reflection. Second, and as importantly, Locke followed Francis Bacon in teaching that all knowledge must be based on careful, systematic observation.
\f0 \

\f3 \
For the empiricists, it follows that insanity, which is a severe form of our ideas 'leading us astray', is explained by a incorrect connection and association of ideas. Some of our ideas have a natural affinity or connection with one another. Others are held together by mere custom or habit. Cases of insanity are cases where habitual associations become so disorganized they begin to effect the 'natural' associations. This misassociation can become so extreme that it can \'93set us awry in our actions, as well moral as natural, passions, reasonings, and notions themselves\'94 ([Bk 2, Ch 33, p 9. Pg. 531][#Locke:1959wj]). To this day, we use metaphors like 'lost his senses' to describe someone with mental illness; and we describe poorly chosen actions as 'not very sensible.'
\f0 \

\f3 \
This is simply the theoretical basis for understanding insanity in the broadest possible terms.  To truly understand how mental disorder is defined and classified, we must consider how the mentally ill have been treated.
\f0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf0 \
}