{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab709
\pard\pardeftab709

\f0\fs24 \cf0 ### Counterfactuals\
\
In reality there are two distinct associations named 'APA.' The American Psychiatric Association, which is composed of Medical Doctors who practice Psychiatry, maintains the DSM. The American Psychological Association, which is composed of academics (PhDs) who study the mind in a variety of ways, does not. \
\
In this game, I have conflated the two, which is significant transgression according to both sides of the divide. \
\
If you are interested in studying these events in closer detail, all our characters correspond to a real person or persons. Those with with MDs are members of the American Psychiatric Association, while characters with PhDs are members of the American Psychological Association. \
\
The American Psychology Association produces a list of educational objectives that are necessary for a Undergraduate Major in Psychology.  The first goal \'93Knowledge Base in Psychology\'94 includes \'93Identify other fields other than psychology that address behavioral concerns.\'94 Of the eight standard *Introduction to Psychology* textbooks I {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://09925165-DCB8-4CC4-97E5-F47D82BD99C9"}}{\fldrslt reviewed}},  three ([#Myers:2015ws], [#Hockenbury:2014ws] and [#Zimbardo:2012uz]) mention \'91Psychiatry\'92 in this context, ranging from a single sentence ([#Myers:2015ws]) to a paragraph ([#Zimbardo:2012uz])---albeit to distinguish Psychiatry from Psychology. Three texts ( [#Gazzaniga:2018tq], [#Cervone:2015ud] and [#Cacioppo:2018we]) mention \'91Psychiatry\'92 in later sections where they compare careers in Psychology, and two ([#Lilienfeld:2014ws], [#Rathus:2012uz]) fail to mention it at all, at least according to the Index.\
\
For the most part, the historical events with which a character interacts occurred under the umbrella of their respective organization.\
}