{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120

\f0\fs24 \cf0  While there is a great deal to prepare for this game, my experience has taught me that the largest challenge the students will face is understanding that psychology and psychiatry were not always as they are now presented.  Most students come to the game believing that (a) psychology is a science and (b) psychiatry is a medical practice.  Both of those claims were not settled in the public mind in 1970.  In fact, most of the tension in this game revolves around the efforts to make psychiatry conform to 'the medical model' and psychology conform to the model of the natural sciences, thereby legitimizing them as worthwhile endeavors.\
Psychology, on the other hand, had been suffering a crisis of legitimacy since its inception, which is why so many of their arguments are really metatheoretical arguments on the nature of science.  The behaviorists believe that introducing new methodologies, like the cognitivists propose, would further weaken their claims to be a scientific discipline. \
Generally speaking, our students come to psychology and psychiatry through textbooks. And as a result, they are primed to believe, unreflectively, that contemporary narrative of these disciplines is settled fact. Furthermore, these students know nothing of the rise and regularization of health insurance companies and billing procedures following the inception of Medicare and Medicade in 1965. For them, managed care, billable hours and check-box diagnoses have always been a part of their medical experience. It was not in 1970. Since the 1970s, the psychiatrists and clinical psychologists have been under extraordinary pressure to create a system of diagnosis that will allow them to be compensated for their work under this system. Spitzer's shift from etiological psychiatry to descriptive psychiatry was a major salvo in that struggle. \
It is difficult to get them to feel the pressure to legitimize psychiatry and psychology that drove much of the work in this era. But one can make progress by explicitly emphasizing the crisis of legitimacy before beginning the game.\
Many of the stories of this period\'97especially those from the members of the Spitzer task force\'97recall a time of great confusion. Spitzer is often characterized as acting almost singlehandedly, ignoring the hard work that others put into the classifications they proposed. If students feel confused and overwhelmed with all of the proposals being brought forward and the changes being made, that is partially intentional. \
While I believe that the removal of homosexuality was the correct decision, both morally and scientifically, that does not mean that the dissenters who point out the political bullying that went into passing the resolutions do not have a point. I want the students to come away with the sense that this period in the history of psychology and psychiatry was an all out scramble for legitimacy. Creating a sense of confusion and chaos is a necessary part of that environment.\
}