{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\li90\ri90\sb90\sa90\qc

\f0\b\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li90\ri90\sb90\sa90\qc

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8232 Emotional responses in a human child.
\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120

\f1\fs24 \cf0 Background
\b0 : Many psychologists--Freud included--have held, with little evidence in support, that the human mind is built on a variety of instincts, such as self-preservation, sexual activity, etc. Emotional responses to fearful stimuli, such as rats and spiders, is commonly considered to be innate, possibly as a result of evolutionary pressures to avoid infectious or poisonous creatures.\'a0 This experiment seeks to condition a fear-response in a human infant, thus establishing that there is no need for theoretical innate entities in our explanation of emotion in humans.
\f0\fs20 \

\f1\b\fs24 Rationale
\b0 : The success of Pavlov's work conditioning reflex responses to novel stimuli in canines has shown that behaviors previously believed to be instinctual are likely to have resulted from conditioning.  The current experiment seeks to determine if that insight can be extended to humans, by conditioning a emotional response in a child\'97fear\'97that is widely believed to be instinctual. Demonstrating that these reflexes can appear without appeal to 'instinct' or 'adaptation' undermines the need for theoretically innate entities in our understanding of human behavior.
\f0\fs20 \

\f1\b\fs24 Experimental Design
\b0 : A child of a single destitute mother, currently employed as a wet nurse at a local hospital (Hopkins), has been recruited for the experiment. Given the nature of his mother's employment, the child is familiar with the clinical setting of a hospital, and hence an ideal subject for this experimental protocol. Previous work with this subject at the age of 8 months has demonstrated that he exhibits fear-like responses to loud sounds: the experimenter stood behind the subject, outside of eye sight and struck a steel bar with a hammer. On the first presentation, the subject startled and raised his hands. On the second, he began to tremble. On the third, he cried and seemed to be having a fit.
\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120

\f1\fs24 \cf0 The experimenter proposes the following:
\f0\fs20 \

\f1\fs24 At 9 months of age, we will present the subject with (randomly): a white rat, a rabbit, a dog, a monkey, with masks with and without hair, cotton wool, and burning newspapers. Given the child's upbringing, it is unlikely that he has ever encountered any of these objects before.\'a0 We expect him to have no emotional response to any of them, but if he responds, that object will be removed from the study before proceeding.
\f0\fs20 \

\f1\fs24 At the age of 11 months, one of the objects will be presented to him again. When he moves towards contact with the object, the experimenter will make the loud noise already established as causing a fear reaction.\'a0 Each movement towards the stimulus object will cause another loud noise stimulus.\'a0 Once the fear reaction is well conditioned, the experimenter will present the subject with the fear-conditioned object and record the response.\'a0 The child's reaction than will be compared with other similarly-aged children's reaction for typicality of fear-reactions in children.
\f0\fs20 \

\f1\fs24 The fear-conditioned object will be reintroduced over the subsequent weeks and months at regular intervals to determine the persistence of the conditioned response.\'a0
\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120

\f1\b\fs24 \cf0 Significance and Contribution
\f0\b0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120

\f1\fs24 \cf0 This research has the potential to experimentally confirm or deny the commonly held belief that the fear response is innate, or at least instinctual. Pavlov's experiments with classical conditioning in dogs has shown that reflexes that were previously believed to be instinctual\'97such as salivation\'97could be conditioned in response to novel stimuli. If Pavlov's approach is to be applied to humans, it is incumbent that psychologists determine the existence and nature of human instinctual reactions, and if they can be conditioned like those of the canine.
\f0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120

\f1\b\fs24 \cf0 References
\f0\b0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120

\f1\fs24 \cf0 Pavlov, I. P. (1927).\ul  Conditioned Reflexes: An Investigation of the Physiological Activity of the Cerebral Cortex\ulnone .\uc0\u8232 
\f0\fs20 \
}