{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid3\'02\'02.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2160\lin2160 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sb240\sa120
\ls1\ilvl2
\f0\fs24 \cf0  	
\f1\b\fs28 Citations not explicitly mentioned previously\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120
\cf0 References used in constructing roles, not specifically mentioned in individual role sheets:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li283
\cf0  Murchison, C.A. & Boring, E.G. 
\i A History of psychology in autobiography. 
\i0 Clark University Press, Worcester, Mass\
Kutchins, H., Kirk, S. A., & Kirk, S. (2003). 
\i Making Us Crazy
\i0 . Simon and Schuster.\
Zusne, L. (1984). 
\i Biographical dictionary of psychology
\i0 . Westport, Conn.: Greenwood Press.\
Sheehy, N., Chapman, A. J., & Conroy, W. A. (1997). 
\i Biographical dictionary of psychology
\i0 . London ; New York: Routledge Reference.\
Cummings, N. A., & O'Donohue, W. T. (2008). Eleven blunders that cripple psychotherapy in America. CRC Press.\
Denny, D. (1998) 
\i Current Concepts in Transgender Identity
\i0 , Taylor & Francis\
Aldrich, R., & Wotherspoon, G. (2001). Who's who in contemporary gay and lesbian history. Routledge.\
Bayer, R. (1987). 
\i Homosexuality and American Psychiatry: the politics of diagnosis
\i0 . Princeton University Press\
Bayer, R. and Spitzer, R. (1985). \'93Neurosis, Psychodynamics, and DSM-III: A History of the Controversy\'94
\i  Arch Gen Psychiatry
\i0 . 42: 187-196.\
Marcus, E. (2002). 
\i Making Gay History: the half-century fight for lesbian and gay equal rights
\i0 , HarperCollins\
Rosario, V. A. (2002). 
\i Homosexuality and science: a guide to the debates,
\i0  ABC-CLIO\
Wilson, K. K. (20XX) The Disparate Classification of Gender and Sexual Orientation in American Psychiatry, online at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://priory.com/psych/disparat.htm"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc0 http://priory.com/psych/disparat.htm}} Accessed 2/18/2011\
}