{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 ##### Aversion Therapy\
\
> ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://C3C8231F-04AC-4B6C-BBFD-D68FD2E231A0"}}{\fldrslt from wikipedia}}) Since 1994, the American Psychological Association has declared that aversion therapy is a dangerous practice that does not work. Since 2006, the use of aversion therapy to treat homosexuality has been in violation of the codes of conduct and professional guidelines of the American Psychological Association and American Psychiatric Association. The use of aversion therapy to treat homosexuality is illegal in some countries. The standard in psychotherapy in America and Europe is currently Gay Affirmative Psychotherapy. Guidelines for Gay Affirmative Psychotherapy can be found by APA. \
\
From Issues in Psychotherapy with Lesbian and Gay Men: A Survey of Psychologists. Linda Garnets, Los Angeles, CA Kristin A. Hancock, Berkeley, CA Susan D. Cochran, California State University, Northridge Jacqueline Goodchilds, University of California, Los Angeles Letitia Anne Peplau, University of California, Los Angeles. Report of the APA. <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://search.apa.org/search?facet=classification:Sexuality%7C%7Cclassification:Therapy&query=Aversion%20Therapy"}}{\fldrslt http://search.apa.org/search?facet=classification%3aSexuality||classification%3aTherapy&query=Aversion%20Therapy}}>\
\
> In 1975, the American Psychological Association (APA) took a strong stance regarding bias toward lesbians and gay men, resolving that homosexuality per se implies no impairment in judgment, reliability or general social and vocational abilities (see Appendix A for the full text of the resolution). The APA urged psychologists to take the lead in removing the stigma of mental illness long associated with homosexual orientations (Conger, 1975). In recent years, attention has been drawn to ways in which a client's ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, or physical disability can affect clinical judgment and treatment strategies. There has been a corresponding effort to develop guidelines to help practitioners avoid bias in psychotherapy (APA, 1975). Recognizing that practice does not spontaneously or quickly follow policy changes, the Committee on Lesbian and Gay Concerns (CLGC), sponsored jointly by the Board of Social and Ethical Responsibility in Psychology (BSERP) and the Board of Professional Affairs (BPA), formed a task force in 1984 to investigate the range of bias that may occur in psychotherapy with lesbians and gay men. This article is an abridged report of the task force's research, findings, and recommendations.\
\
##### Reparative therapy\
\
See discussion of NARTH in `\\fullref\{demedicalization\}`\{=latex\} above.\
\
The American Psychological Association rejected reparative therapy most recently in 2009. The American Psychiatric Association in 2000, and the American Psychoanalytic Association in 2012. For the full list, see the Human Rights Campaign\'92s list: <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.hrc.org/resources/policy-and-position-statements-on-conversion-therapy"}}{\fldrslt https://www.hrc.org/resources/policy-and-position-statements-on-conversion-therapy}}>\
}