{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldItalicMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-ItalicMT;\f4\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f5\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;
\f6\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f7\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;\f8\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab709
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf0 ## John Spiegel, MD 
\f1\i0\b0 `\\index\{Spiegel, John |(\}`\{=latex\}
\f0\i\b \
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f2\i0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f3\i\b0 \cf0 Starting Credibility: 5
\f2\i0\b \
\
### Your Biography\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f4\b0\fs24 \cf0 You are John P. Spiegel, MD. You were born in 1911 in Chicago. You graduated from Dartmouth College and went to Medical school at Northwestern. You are a former president of the American Academy of Psychoanalysis.\
\
During WWII, you were a medical officer in the army, where you became friends with Dr. Roy Grinker. The two of you co-authored a hugely influential book at the end of the war titled
\f5\i  Men Under Stress
\f4\i0 , in which you argued that combat fatigue (now called 'post traumatic stress disorder') was not a character flaw, but could happen to anyone.\
\
Since the end of the war, you've taught at the University of Chicago and Harvard. You were offered the directorship of the Lemberg Center for the Study of Violence at Brandeis in 1966, and you took it. You've been there ever since.\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 ### Objectives\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f4\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
You are a member of the secret faction 'The Young Turks' with Judd Marmor. This is a group of politically progressive psychiatrists founded in 1970, after the events in San Francisco, dedicated to changing the direction psychiatry for the future. You have a connection to the 'Group for the Advancement of Psychiatry,' which has been advocating for progressive causes\'97specifically, limiting the use of electroshock therapy, ending the persecution of homosexuals by the US Military, desegregating the American south, etc\'97in psychiatry since the end of WWII. \
\
As a first step, the Young Turks will propose to the Board of Directors that homosexuality be removed from the next edition of the DSM during the 1971 conference. You'll notice that you start the game on the nomenclature committee with Spitzer
\f1\fs28 `\\index\{Spitzer, Robert\}`\{=latex\}
\f4\fs24 . Thus, the task of making the proposal will fall to Marmor, but you'll be there on nomenclature when it comes to your committee for discussion. It is your responsibility to convince Spitzer and and Albee
\f1\fs28 `\\index\{Albee, George\}`\{=latex\}
\f4\fs24  to support the proposal.\
\
You should participate on the task force to report on the treatment of homosexuality with Green
\f0\i\b `\\index\{Green, Richard\}`\{=latex\}
\f4\i0\b0   between 1971-1972. That task force should provide the historical background necessary for the nomenclature board to make its decision.\
\
Once that is passed, you will work closely with Robert Spitzer on the formation of his task force. You should run for vice president in 1974 / 1975, so that you will be president when Spitzer's report is due. If elected for 1975, your presidential address should endorse and defend the new form of the DSM taxonomy. Your ideology here is pragmatic. You want homosexuality removed, but are willing to make compromises on other issues. It is far more important to you that homosexuality is removed from the nomenclature and a theoretically-neutral DSM is created than any specific item of classification.\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b \cf0 \
#### Specific Assignment\
\
**Initial Committee Membership**\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f4\i0\b0 \cf0 `\\begin\{
\f6\fs22 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
service\}[Spiegel]\\label\{service:spiegel\}\
Initial member of the Nomenclature committee with term expiring 1974\
\\end\{service\}`\{=latex\}\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f4\i0\b0 \cf0 Start out as member of the nomenclature committee with term expiring 1974. Is eligible for all positions after that term. Run for Vice President, preferably in 1974.\
\
##### Demedicalization\
\
As a member of the Young Turks, you are dedicated to the demedicalization of homosexuality.  If Armor\'92s initial proposal to remove homosexuality fails, you will work with Green to create a task force to conduct a historical survey of the literature on homosexuality.  `\\begin\{
\f6\fs22 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
proposal\}[Spiegel]\\label\{proposal:spiegel\}\
Propose a task force to study the history of the treatment of homosexuality, and its basis in evidence.  You present this with Green as a 'compromise' between Marmor
\f1\fs28 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \\index\{Marmor, Judd\}
\f6\fs22 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 and Socarides
\f4\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \\index\{Socarides, Charles\},
\f6\fs22 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 but of course, you and Marmor are working together as the Young Turks.\
\\end\{proposal\}`\{=latex\}
\f4\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
##### Research\
`\\begin\{researchtask\}[Spiegel]\\label\{researchtask:spiegel\}Propose a classroom experiment on defense mechanisms. See the gamemasster for a sample \\fullref\{app: 
\f7\fs28 defensemechanism
\f4\fs24 \}.\\end\{researchtask\}`\{=latex\}\
Working with R. Green (if he is a character in your gam), petition the Board of Directors in 1971 to create a task force to conduct a historical survey and literature review on the Psychiatric and Psychological treatment of homosexuality. The task force should be be balanced between psychologists and psychiatrists, so you need a psychiatrist to support the effort \'96 E. Hooker`\\index\{Hooker, Evelyn\}`\{=latex\} and G. Albee are a good choices..\
\
##### Association Business / DSM-III\
\
`\\begin\{
\f6\fs22 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
writingtask\}[Spiegel]\\label\{writingtask:spiegel\}\

\f4\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 With Green, white a report (due in 1972) should be titled \'93Homosexuality as Mental Illness,\'94 and it should summarize the issues at stake in forthcoming debate, as well as cover the history of the classification of homosexuality by the psychological sciences
\f6\fs22 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\\end\{writingtask\}`\{=latex\}\
\
Work with Spitzer on the proposals to create his task force--and be certain to ensure adequate voice from the psychoanalytic community.
\f4\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
##### Social responsibilities of social scientists\
\
Officially neutral, but given your advocacy in the case of homosexuality, you are probably opposed to the Leona Tyler principle.
\f1\fs28 `\\index\{Tyler, Leona: Leona Tyler Principle\}`\{=latex\}
\f4\fs24 \
\
##### Definition of \'91mental illness\'92 and fission of the APA\
\
\pard\pardeftab709\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f8\b \cf0 **When, and if, the game reaches a point of trying to define mental illness**
\f4\b0 , you must pass a psychoanalytic interpretation of mental disorder / illness.
\f0\i\b \
\pard\pardeftab709\partightenfactor0

\f4\i0\b0 \cf0 \
Your report (due in 1972) should be titled \'93Homosexuality as Mental {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://6EAF1D64-8B2B-4F16-9DA8-DBCED9F802C0"}}{\fldrslt Illness,\'94}} and it should summarize the issues at stake in forthcoming debate, as well as cover the history of the classification of homosexuality by the psychological sciences. R. Green and you should co-author the report. You should invite responses to your paper from Socarides & Beiber and Judd Marmor.\
\pard\pardeftab709\sb240\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 \
### Must Read\
\pard\pardeftab709\li283\sa120\partightenfactor0

\f4\b0\fs24 \cf0 Grinker, R. & Spiegel, J. P. (1945)
\f5\i  Men Under Stress
\f4\i0  American Psychological Association. Was once available print-on-demand, but is not currently: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://ww.apa.org/pubs/books/4320127.aspx"}}{\fldrslt ww.apa.org/pubs/books/4320127.aspx}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf0 `\\index\{Spiegel, John |)\}`\{=latex\}
\f4\fs24 \
}