{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid3\'02\'02.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2160\lin2160 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sb240\sa120
\ls1\ilvl2
\f0\fs24 \cf0  	
\f1\b\fs28 Obituaries and Tributes \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120

\b \cf0 Anne Anastasi
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li283
\cf0 \'93Anne Anastasi: Biography of a Former APA President\'94 American Psychological Association: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.apa.org/about/archives/presidents/bio-anne-anastasi.aspx"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc0 http://www.apa.org/about/archives/presidents/bio-anne-anastasi.aspx}}\
Goode, E. \'93Anne Anastasi, the 'Test Guru' of Psychology, Is Dead at 92\'94, New York Times, May 16, 2001: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.nytimes.com/2001/05/16/nyregion/anne-anastasi-the-test-guru-of-psychology-is-dead-at-92.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc0 http://www.nytimes.com/2001/05/16/nyregion/anne-anastasi-the-test-guru-of-psychology-is-dead-at-92.html}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120

\b \cf0 George Albee
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li283
\cf0 Kessler, M. (2007). "Obituary: George W. Albee (1921-2006)." American Psychologist 62(4): 317-318. \
Associated Press (2006) \'93George W. Albee; Psychologist Sought Social Cures\'94 July 13, 2006\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120

\b \cf0 Irving Bieber
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li283
\cf0 Myers, S. L. \'93Irving Bieber, 80, a Psychoanalyst Who Studied Homosexuality, Dies\'94 NY Times 8/28/1991 http://query.nytimes.com/gst/fullpage.html?res=9D0CE3D7153FF93BA1575BC0A967958260\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120

\b \cf0 Kenneth Clark
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li283
\cf0 Phillips, L. (2002). \'93Recontextualizing Kenneth B. Clark: An Afrocentric Perspective on the Paradoxical Legacy of a Model Psychologist-Activist.\'94 
\i Evolving Perspectives on the History of Psychology
\i0 . W. E. Pickren and D. A. Dewsbury. Washington, DC, American Psychriatric Association. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120

\b \cf0 John Fryer
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li283
\cf0 Pray, R. (2003). \'93John E. Fryer, 65, psychiatrist.\'94 The Philadelphia Inquirer. Philadelphia: B09.\
Lenzer, J. (2003). \'93John Fryer\'94 BMJ  March 22; 326(7390): 662. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1125557/"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc0 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1125557/}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120

\b \cf0 Barbara Gittings
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li283
\cf0 Kameny, Frank (2007). \'93Frank Kameny's Eulogy for Barbara Gittings\'94 available at http://www.kamenypapers.org/eulogy.htm\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120

\b \cf0 Harry Harlow
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li283
\cf0 Sears, R. R. (1982). "Obituary: Harry Frederick Harlow (1905-1981)." American Psychologist 37(11): 1280-1281. 	\
Obituary for Harry Frederick Harlow (1905-1981). Harlow's research career, spanning a full half century, was notable for its single-minded adherence to the search for understanding of a single species, for the imaginative methods he devised for the study of both cognition and motivation, and for the crucially important findings these methods provided. His careful empirical development of the facts of behavioral development led to prepositional generalizations that have contributed notably to an understanding of human as well as monkey motivational development. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2008 APA, all rights reserve \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120

\b \cf0 Harold Lief
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li283
\cf0 Pearce, J. (2007). \'93Harold I. Lief, Advocate of Sex Education, Dies at 89\'94, The New York Times, March 23, 2007: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.nytimes.com/2007/03/23/obituaries/23lief.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc0 http://www.nytimes.com/2007/03/23/obituaries/23lief.html}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120

\b \cf0 Charles Socarides
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li283
\cf0 Fox, M. \'93Charles W Socarides, Psychiatrist and Psychoanalyst, Is Dead at 83\'94, NY Times, 12/25/2005 http://www.nytimes.com/2005/12/28/nyregion/28socarides.html\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120

\b \cf0 John P. Spiegel
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li283
\cf0 Cook, J. \'93John P. Spiegel, 80, Expert on Violence And Combat Stress\'94 New York Times, July 19, 1991. http://www.nytimes.com/1991/07/19/obituaries/john-p-spiegel-80-expert-on-violence-and-combat-stress.html\
}